<?xml version="1.0"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="chrome://global/skin" type="text/css"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="chrome://mochikit/content/tests/SimpleTest/test.css" type="text/css"?>

<window id="window1" title="Test Bug 428405"
  onload="setGlobals(); loadFirstTab();"
  xmlns:html="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns="http://www.mozilla.org/keymaster/gatekeeper/there.is.only.xul">

  <script src="chrome://mochikit/content/tests/SimpleTest/SimpleTest.js"/>
  <script src="chrome://mochikit/content/tests/SimpleTest/EventUtils.js"/>
  <script src="chrome://mochikit/content/tests/SimpleTest/NativeKeyCodes.js"/>

  <tabbox id="tabbox" style="-moz-box-flex: 100">
    <tabs>
      <tab label="Tab 1"/>
      <tab label="Tab 2"/>
    </tabs>
    <tabpanels style="-moz-box-flex: 100">
      <browser onload="configureFirstTab();" id="tab1browser" style="-moz-box-flex: 100"/>
      <browser onload="configureSecondTab();" id="tab2browser" style="-moz-box-flex: 100"/>
    </tabpanels>
  </tabbox>

  <script type="application/javascript"><![CDATA[
    const {BrowserTestUtils} = ChromeUtils.importESModule(
      "resource://testing-common/BrowserTestUtils.sys.mjs"
    );

    SimpleTest.waitForExplicitFinish();

    var gCmdOptYReceived = false;

    // Look for a cmd-opt-y event.
    function onKeyPress(aEvent) {
      gCmdOptYReceived = false;
      if (String.fromCharCode(aEvent.charCode) != 'y')
        return;
      if (aEvent.ctrlKey || aEvent.shiftKey || !aEvent.metaKey || !aEvent.altKey)
        return;
      gCmdOptYReceived = true;
    }

    function setGlobals() {
      let chromeWindow = Services.wm.getMostRecentWindow("navigator:browser");
      // For some reason, a global <key> element's oncommand handler only gets
      // invoked if the focus is outside both of the <browser> elements
      // (tab1browser and tab2browser).  So, to make sure we can see a
      // cmd-opt-y event in window1 (if one is available), regardless of where
      // the focus is in this window, we need to add a "keypress" event
      // listener to gChromeWindow, and then check (in onKeyPress()) to see if
      // it's a cmd-opt-y event.
      chromeWindow.addEventListener("keypress", onKeyPress);
    }

    // 1) Start loading first tab.
    // 6) Start reloading first tab.
    function loadFirstTab() {
      var browser = document.getElementById("tab1browser");
      BrowserTestUtils.startLoadingURIString(browser, "data:text/html;charset=utf-8,<body><h2>First Tab</h2><p><input type='submit' value='Button' id='button1'/></body>");
    }

    function configureFirstTab() {
      try {
        var button = document.getElementById("tab1browser").contentDocument.getElementById("button1");
        button.addEventListener("click", onFirstTabButtonClicked);
        button.focus();
        if (document.getElementById("tabbox").selectedIndex == 0) {
          // 2) When first tab has finished loading (while first tab is
          //    focused), hit Return to trigger the action of first tab's
          //    button.
          synthesizeNativeReturnKey();
        } else {
          // 7) When first tab has finished reloading (while second tab is
          //    focused), start loading second tab.
          loadSecondTab();
        }
      } catch(e) {
      }
    }

    // 8) Start loading second tab.
    function loadSecondTab() {
      var browser = document.getElementById("tab2browser");
      BrowserTestUtils.startLoadingURIString(browser, "data:text/html;charset=utf-8,<body><h2>Second Tab</h2><p><input type='submit' value='Button' id='button1'/></body>");
    }

    function configureSecondTab() {
      try {
        var button = document.getElementById("tab2browser").contentDocument.getElementById("button1");
        button.addEventListener("click", onSecondTabButtonClicked);
        button.focus();
        if (document.getElementById("tabbox").selectedIndex == 1) {
          // 9) When second tab has finished loading (while second tab is
          //    focused), hit Return to trigger action of second tab's
          //    button.
          synthesizeNativeReturnKey();
        }
      } catch(e) {
      }
    }

    // 3) First tab's button clicked.
    function onFirstTabButtonClicked() {
      switchToSecondTabAndReloadFirst();
    }

    // 10) Second tab's button clicked.
    function onSecondTabButtonClicked() {
      switchToFirstTab();
    }

    function switchToSecondTabAndReloadFirst() {
      // 4) Switch to second tab.
      document.getElementById("tabbox").selectedIndex = 1;
      // 5) Start reloading first tab (while second tab is focused).
      loadFirstTab();
    }

    function switchToFirstTab() {
      // 11) Switch back to first tab.
      document.getElementById("tabbox").selectedIndex = 0;
      doCmdY();
    }

    function doCmdY() {
      // 12) Back in first tab, try cmd-y.
      gCmdOptYReceived = false;
      if (!synthesizeNativeCmdOptY(finishTest)) {
        ok(false, "Failed to synthesize native key");
        finishTest();
      }
    }

    function finishTest() {
      // 13) Check result.
      is(gCmdOptYReceived, true);

      SimpleTest.finish();
    }

    // synthesizeNativeReturnKey() and synthesizeNativeCmdOptY() are needed
    // because their synthesizeKey() counterparts don't work properly -- the
    // latter make this test succeed when it should fail.

    // The 'aNativeKeyCode', 'aCharacters' and 'aUnmodifiedCharacters'
    // parameters used below (in synthesizeNativeReturnKey() and
    // synthesizeNativeCmdOptY()) were confirmed accurate using the
    // DebugEventsPlugin v1.01 from bmo bug 441880.

    function synthesizeNativeReturnKey() {
      synthesizeNativeKey(KEYBOARD_LAYOUT_EN_US, MAC_VK_Return, {}, "\u000a", "\u000a");
    }

    function synthesizeNativeCmdOptY(aCallback) {
      return synthesizeNativeKey(KEYBOARD_LAYOUT_EN_US, MAC_VK_ANSI_Y, {metaKey:1, altKey:1}, "y", "y", aCallback);
    }

  ]]></script>

  <!-- test results are displayed in the html:body -->
  <body xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <p id="display"></p>
    <div id="content" style="display: none"></div>
    <pre id="test"></pre>
  </body>

</window>
