<?xml version="1.0"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="chrome://global/skin"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="chrome://mochikit/content/tests/SimpleTest/test.css"?>
<!--
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1812078
-->
<window title="Mozilla Bug 1812078"
        xmlns="http://www.mozilla.org/keymaster/gatekeeper/there.is.only.xul">
<script src="chrome://mochikit/content/tests/SimpleTest/SimpleTest.js"/>
<script type="application/javascript" src="clipboard_helper.js"/>

<!-- test results are displayed in the html:body -->
<body xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<p id="display"></p>
<div id="content" style="display: none"></div>
<pre id="test"></pre>
</body>

<!-- test code goes here -->
<script class="testbody" type="application/javascript">
<![CDATA[

function testClipboardOwner(aClipboardType, aAsync) {
  let losingOwnership = false;
  const clipboardOwner = {
    QueryInterface: ChromeUtils.generateQI(["nsIClipboardOwner"]),
    // nsIClipboardOwner
    LosingOwnership(aTransferable) {
      losingOwnership = true;
    },
  };

  add_task(function test_clipboard_owner() {
    info(`Test clipboard owner for type ${aClipboardType} ${aAsync ? "async" : ""}`);

    // Setup clipboard owner.
    writeRandomStringToClipboard("text/plain", aClipboardType, clipboardOwner, aAsync);

    // Test should not lose ownership.
    clipboardTypes.forEach(function(otherType) {
      losingOwnership = false;
      if (aClipboardType != otherType && clipboard.isClipboardTypeSupported(otherType)) {
        // Test setting clipboard data.
        writeRandomStringToClipboard("text/plain", otherType);
        ok(!losingOwnership, `Should not lose ownership while setting data to type ${otherType}`);

        // Test async setting clipboard data.
        writeRandomStringToClipboard("text/plain", otherType, null, true);
        ok(!losingOwnership, `Should not lose ownership while async setting data to type ${otherType}`);
      }
    });

    // Test whether should lose ownership.
    losingOwnership = false;
    writeRandomStringToClipboard("text/plain", aClipboardType, clipboardOwner);
    ok(losingOwnership, `Should lose ownership while setting data to type ${aClipboardType}`);

    losingOwnership = false;
    writeRandomStringToClipboard("text/plain", aClipboardType, null, true);
    ok(losingOwnership, `Should lose ownership while async setting data to type ${aClipboardType}`);

    // Clean clipboard data.
    cleanupAllClipboard();
  });
}

/** Test for Bug 1812078 */
clipboardTypes.forEach(function(testType) {
  if (clipboard.isClipboardTypeSupported(testType)) {
    // Test sync set clipboard data.
    testClipboardOwner(testType, false);

    // Test async set clipboard data.
    testClipboardOwner(testType, true);
  }
});

]]>
</script>
</window>
