<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=783415
-->
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Test "display" values of content in a flex container (Bug 783415)</title>
  <script type="application/javascript" src="/tests/SimpleTest/SimpleTest.js"></script>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/tests/SimpleTest/test.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a target="_blank" href="https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=783415">Mozilla Bug 783415</a>
<div id="display">
  <div id="wrapper"></div>
</div>
<pre id="test">
<script type="application/javascript">
<![CDATA[
"use strict";

/**
 * Test "display" values of content in a flex container (Bug 783415)
 * ================================================================
 *
 * This test creates content with a variety of specified "display" values
 * and checks what the computed "display" is when we put that content
 * in a flex container.  (Generally, it'll be the "blockified" form of the
 * specified display-value.)
 */

/*
 * Utility function for getting computed style of "display".
 *
 * @arg aElem The element to query for its computed "display" value.
 * @return    The computed display value
 */
function getComputedDisplay(aElem) {
  return window.getComputedStyle(aElem).display;
}

/*
 * Function used for testing a given specified "display" value and checking
 * its computed value against expectations.
 *
 * @arg aSpecifiedDisplay
 *        The specified value of "display" that we should test.
 *
 * @arg aExpectedDisplayAsFlexContainerChild
 *        (optional) The expected computed "display" when an element with
 *        aSpecifiedDisplay is a child of a flex container. If omitted,
 *        this argument defaults to aSpecifiedDisplay.
 *
 * @arg aExpectedDisplayAsOutOfFlowFlexContainerChild
 *        (optional) The expected computed "display" when an element with
 *        aSpecifiedDisplay is a child of a flex container *and* has
 *        position:[fixed|absolute] or float: [left|right] set. If omitted,
 *        this argument defaults to aExpectedDisplayAsFlexContainerChild.
 */
function testDisplayValue(aSpecifiedDisplay,
                          aExpectedDisplayAsFlexContainerChild,
                          aExpectedDisplayAsOutOfFlowFlexContainerChild) {
  // DEFAULT-ARGUMENT-VALUES MAGIC: Make 2nd and 3rd args each default to
  // the preceding arg, if they're unspecified.
  if (typeof aExpectedDisplayAsFlexContainerChild == "undefined") {
    aExpectedDisplayAsFlexContainerChild = aSpecifiedDisplay;
  }
  if (typeof aExpectedDisplayAsOutOfFlowFlexContainerChild == "undefined") {
    aExpectedDisplayAsOutOfFlowFlexContainerChild =
      aExpectedDisplayAsFlexContainerChild;
  }

  // FIRST: Create a node with display:aSpecifiedDisplay, and make sure that
  // this original display-type is honored in a non-flex-container context.
  let wrapper = document.getElementById("wrapper");
  let node = document.createElement("div");
  wrapper.appendChild(node);

  node.style.display = aSpecifiedDisplay;
  is(getComputedDisplay(node), aSpecifiedDisplay,
     "checking computed value of 'display: " + aSpecifiedDisplay + "' " +
     "should be the same as specified value, when parent is a block");


  // SECOND: We make our node's parent into a flex container, and make sure
  // that this produces the correct computed "display" value.
  wrapper.style.display = "flex";
  is(getComputedDisplay(node), aExpectedDisplayAsFlexContainerChild,
     "checking computed value of 'display: " + aSpecifiedDisplay + "' " +
     "when parent is a flex container");


  // THIRD: We set "float" and "position" on our node (still inside of a
  // flex container), and make sure that this produces the correct computed
  // "display" value.
  node.style.cssFloat = "left";
  is(getComputedDisplay(node), aExpectedDisplayAsOutOfFlowFlexContainerChild,
     "checking computed value of 'display: " + aSpecifiedDisplay + "' " +
     "when parent is a flex container and we're floated left");
  node.style.cssFloat = "";

  node.style.cssFloat = "right";
  is(getComputedDisplay(node), aExpectedDisplayAsOutOfFlowFlexContainerChild,
     "checking computed value of 'display: " + aSpecifiedDisplay + "' " +
     "when parent is a flex container and we're floated right");
  node.style.cssFloat = "";

  node.style.position = "absolute";
  is(getComputedDisplay(node), aExpectedDisplayAsOutOfFlowFlexContainerChild,
     "checking computed value of 'display: " + aSpecifiedDisplay + "' " +
     "when parent is a flex container and we're abs-pos");
  node.style.position = "";

  node.style.position = "fixed";
  is(getComputedDisplay(node), aExpectedDisplayAsOutOfFlowFlexContainerChild,
     "checking computed value of 'display: " + aSpecifiedDisplay + "' " +
     "when parent is a flex container and we're fixed-pos");
  node.style.position = "";

  // FINALLY: Clean up -- remove the node we created, and turn the wrapper
  // back into its original display type (a block).
  wrapper.removeChild(node);
  wrapper.style.display = "";
}

/*
 * Main test function
 */
function main() {
  testDisplayValue("none");
  testDisplayValue("block");
  testDisplayValue("flex");
  testDisplayValue("inline-flex", "flex");
  testDisplayValue("list-item");
  testDisplayValue("table");
  testDisplayValue("inline-table", "table");

  // These values all compute to "block" in a flex container. Do them in a
  // loop, so that I don't have to type "block" a zillion times.
  var dispValsThatComputeToBlockInAFlexContainer = [
    "inline",
    "inline-block",
    "-moz-box",
    "-moz-inline-box",
  ];

  dispValsThatComputeToBlockInAFlexContainer.forEach(
    function(aSpecifiedDisplay) {
      testDisplayValue(aSpecifiedDisplay, "block");
  });

  // Table-parts are special. When they're a child of a flex container,
  // they normally don't get blockified -- instead, they trigger table-fixup
  // and get wrapped in a table.  So, their expected display as the child of
  // a flex container is the same as their specified display. BUT, if
  // we apply out-of-flow styling, then *that* blockifies them before
  // we get to the table-fixup stage -- so then, their computed display
  // is "block".
  let tablePartsDispVals = [
    "table-row-group",
    "table-column",
    "table-column-group",
    "table-header-group",
    "table-footer-group",
    "table-row",
    "table-cell",
    "table-caption"
  ];

  tablePartsDispVals.forEach(
    function(aSpecifiedDisplay) {
      testDisplayValue(aSpecifiedDisplay, "block", "block");
  });
}

main();
]]>
</script>
</pre>
</body>
</html>
