<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=75375
-->
<head>
  <title>Test for *-of-type selectors in Bug 75375</title>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="/tests/SimpleTest/SimpleTest.js"></script>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/tests/SimpleTest/test.css" />
</head>
<body>
<a target="_blank" href="https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=75375">Mozilla Bug 75375</a>
<div id="content" style="display: none"
     xmlns:html="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<p>This is a <code>p</code> element in the HTML namespace.</p>
<p>This is a second <code>p</code> element in the HTML namespace.</p>
<html:p>This is an <code>html:p</code> element in the HTML namespace.</html:p>
<p xmlns="http://www.example.com/ns">This is a <code>p</code> element in the <code>http://www.example.com/ns</code> namespace.</p>
<html:address>This is an <code>html:address</code> element in the HTML namespace.</html:address>
<address xmlns="">This is a <code>address</code> element in no namespace.</address>
<address xmlns="">This is a <code>address</code> element in no namespace.</address>
<p xmlns="">This is a <code>p</code> element in no namespace.</p>

</div>
<pre id="test">
<script class="testbody" type="text/javascript">
<![CDATA[

/** Test for *-of-type selectors in Bug 75375 **/

var HTML_NS = "http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml";

function setup_style_text() {
    var result = document.createCDATASection("");
    var style = document.createElementNS(HTML_NS, "style");
    style.appendChild(result);
    document.getElementsByTagName("head")[0].appendChild(style);
    return result;
}

function run() {
    var styleText = setup_style_text();

    var elements = [];

    var div = document.getElementById("content");
    for (var i = 0; i < div.childNodes.length; ++i) {
        var child = div.childNodes[i];
        if (child.nodeType == Node.ELEMENT_NODE)
            elements.push(child);
    }

    var counter = 0;

    function test_selector(selector, match_indices, notmatch_indices)
    {
        var zi = ++counter;
        styleText.data = selector + " { z-index: " + zi + " }";
        var i;
        for (i in match_indices) {
            var e = elements[match_indices[i]];
            is(getComputedStyle(e, "").zIndex, zi,
               "element " + match_indices[i] + " matched " + selector);
        }
        for (i in notmatch_indices) {
            var e = elements[notmatch_indices[i]];
            is(getComputedStyle(e, "").zIndex, "auto",
               "element " + notmatch_indices[i] + " did not match " + selector);
        }
    }

    // 0 - html:p
    // 1 - html:p
    // 2 - html:p
    // 3 - example:p
    // 4 - html:address
    // 5 - :address
    // 6 - :address
    // 7 - :p
    test_selector(":nth-of-type(1)", [0, 3, 4, 5, 7], [1, 2, 6]);
    test_selector(":nth-last-of-type(1)", [2, 3, 4, 6, 7], [0, 1, 5]);
    test_selector(":nth-last-of-type(-n+1)", [2, 3, 4, 6, 7], [0, 1, 5]);
    test_selector(":nth-of-type(even)", [1, 6], [0, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7]);
    test_selector(":nth-last-of-type(odd)", [0, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7], [1, 5]);
    test_selector(":nth-last-of-type(n+2)", [0, 1, 5], [2, 3, 4, 6, 7]);
    test_selector(":first-of-type", [0, 3, 4, 5, 7], [1, 2, 6]);
    test_selector(":last-of-type", [2, 3, 4, 6, 7], [0, 1, 5]);
    test_selector(":only-of-type", [3, 4, 7], [0, 1, 2, 5, 6]);
}

run();

]]>
</script>
</pre>
</body>
</html>

