# This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
# License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
# file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

=head1 NAME

 mpi-test - automated test program for MPI library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 mpi-test <suite-name> [quiet]
 mpi-test list
 mpi-test help

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<mpi-test> program is a general unit test driver for the MPI
library.  It is used to verify that the library works as it is
supposed to on your architecture.  As with most such things, passing
all the tests in B<mpi-test> does not guarantee the code is correct,
but if any of them fail, there are certainly problems.

Each major function of the library can be tested individually.  For a
list of the test suites understood by B<mpi-test>, run it with the
I<list> command line option:

 mpi-test list

This will display a list of the available test suites and a brief
synopsis of what each one does.  For a brief overview of this
document, run B<mpi-test> I<help>.

B<mpi-test> exits with a zero status if the selected test succeeds, or
a nonzero status if it fails.  If a I<suite-name> which is not
understood by B<mpi-test> is given, a diagnostic is printed to the
standard error, and the program exits with a result code of 2.  If a
test fails, the result code will be 1, and a diagnostic is ordinarily
printed to the standard error.  However, if the I<quiet> option is
provided, these diagnostics will be suppressed.

=head1 RESTRICTIONS

Only a few canned test cases are provided.  The solutions have been
verified using the GNU bc(1) program, so bugs there may cause problems
here; however, this is very unlikely, so if a test fails, it is almost
certainly my fault, not bc(1)'s.

=head1 AUTHOR

 Michael J. Fromberger <sting@linguist.dartmouth.edu>
 Thayer School of Engineering, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA
 
 $Date: 2012/04/25 14:49:52 $
