services/common/docs/RemoteSettings.rst, before:

.. _services/remotesettings:

===============
Remote Settings
===============

The `remote-settings.js <https://dxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/services/common/remote-settings.js>`_ module offers the ability to fetch remote settings that are kept in sync with Mozilla servers.


Usage
=====

The ``get()`` method returns the list of entries for a specific key. Each entry can have arbitrary attributes, and can only be modified on the server.

.. code-block:: js

    const { RemoteSettings } = ChromeUtils.import("resource://services-common/remote-settings.js", {});

    const data = await RemoteSettings("a-key").get();

    /*
      data == [
        {label: "Yahoo",  enabled: true,  weight: 10, id: "d0782d8d", last_modified: 1522764475905},
        {label: "Google", enabled: true,  weight: 20, id: "8883955f", last_modified: 1521539068414},
        {label: "Ecosia", enabled: false, weight: 5,  id: "337c865d", last_modified: 1520527480321},
      ]
    */

    for(const entry of data) {
      // Do something with entry...
      // await InternalAPI.load(entry.id, entry.label, entry.weight);
    });

.. note::
    The ``id`` and ``last_modified`` (timestamp) attributes are assigned by the server.

Options
-------

The list can optionally be filtered or ordered:

.. code-block:: js

    const subset = await RemoteSettings("a-key").get({
      filters: {
        "property": "value"
      },
      order: "-weight"
    });

Events
------

The ``on()`` function registers handlers to be triggered when events occur.

The ``sync`` event allows to be notified when the remote settings are changed on the server side. Your handler is given an ``event`` object that contains a ``data`` attribute that has information about the changes:

- ``current``: current list of entries (after changes were applied);
- ``created``, ``updated``, ``deleted``: list of entries that were created/updated/deleted respectively.

.. code-block:: js

    RemoteSettings("a-key").on("sync", event => {
      const { data: { current } } = event;
      for(const entry of current) {
        // Do something with entry...
        // await InternalAPI.reload(entry.id, entry.label, entry.weight);
      }
    });

.. important::
    If one of the event handler fails, the others handlers for the same remote settings collection won't be executed.

.. note::
    Currently, the update of remote settings is triggered by the `nsBlocklistService <https://dxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/mozapps/extensions/nsBlocklistService.js>`_ (~ every 24H).

File attachments
----------------

When an entry has a file attached to it, it has an ``attachment`` attribute, which contains the file related information (url, hash, size, mimetype, etc.). Remote files are not downloaded automatically.

.. code-block:: js

    const data = await RemoteSettings("a-key").get();

    data.filter(d => d.attachment)
        .forEach(async ({ attachment: { url, filename, size } }) => {
          if (size < OS.freeDiskSpace) {
            await downloadLocally(url, filename);
          }
        });

Initial data
------------

For newly created user profiles, the list of entries returned by the ``.get()`` method will be empty until the first synchronization happens.

It is possible to package a dump of the server records that will be loaded into the local database when no synchronization has happened yet. It will thus serve as the default dataset and also reduce the amount of data to be downloaded on the first synchronization.

#. Place the JSON dump of the server records in the ``services/settings/dumps/main/`` folder
#. Add the filename to the ``FINAL_TARGET_FILES`` list in ``services/settings/dumps/main/moz.build``

Now, when ``RemoteSettings("some-key").get()`` is called from an empty profile, the ``some-key.json`` file is going to be loaded before the results are returned.


Uptake Telemetry
================

Some :ref:`uptake telemetry <telemetry/collection/uptake>` is collected in order to monitor how remote settings are propagated.

It is submitted to a single :ref:`keyed histogram <histogram-type-keyed>` whose id is ``UPTAKE_REMOTE_CONTENT_RESULT_1`` and the keys are prefixed with ``main/`` (eg. ``main/a-key`` in the above example).


Create new remote settings
==========================

Staff members can create new kinds of remote settings, following `this documentation <https://mana.mozilla.org/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=66655528>`_.

It basically consists in:

#. Choosing a key (eg. ``search-providers``)
#. Assigning collaborators to editors and reviewers groups
#. (*optional*) Define a JSONSchema to validate entries
#. (*optional*) Allow attachments on entries

And once done:

#. Create, modify or delete entries and let reviewers approve the changes
#. Wait for Firefox to pick-up the changes for your settings key


Debugging and testing
=====================

Trigger a synchronization manually
----------------------------------

The synchronization of every known remote settings clients can be triggered manually with ``pollChanges()``:

.. code-block:: js

    await RemoteSettings.pollChanges()

The synchronization of a single client can be forced with ``maybeSync()``:

.. code-block:: js

    const fakeTimestamp = Infinity;
    const fakeServerTime = Date.now();

    await RemoteSettings("a-key").maybeSync(fakeTimestamp, fakeServerTime)


Manipulate local data
---------------------

A handle on the local collection can be obtained with ``openCollection()``.

.. code-block:: js

    const collection = await RemoteSettings("a-key").openCollection();

And records can be created manually (as if they were synchronized from the server):

.. code-block:: js

    const record = await collection.create({
      domain: "website.com",
      usernameSelector: "#login-account",
      passwordSelector: "#pass-signin",
    }, { synced: true });

In order to bypass the potential target filtering of ``RemoteSettings("key").get()``, the low-level listing of records can be obtained with ``collection.list()``:

.. code-block:: js

    const subset = await collection.list({
      filters: {
        "property": "value"
      }
    });

The local data can be flushed with ``clear()``:

.. code-block:: js

    await collection.clear()

For further documentation in collection API, checkout the `kinto.js library <https://kintojs.readthedocs.io/>`_, which is in charge of the IndexedDB interactions behind-the-scenes.


Inspect local data
------------------

The internal IndexedDBs of remote settings can be accessed via the Storage Inspector in the `browser toolbox <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Browser_Toolbox>`_.

For example, the local data of the ``"key"`` collection can be accessed in the ``main/key`` IndexedDB store at *Browser Toolbox* > *Storage* > *IndexedDB* > *chrome* > *main/key*.


\about:remotesettings
---------------------

The ``about:remotesettings`` extension provides some tooling to inspect synchronization statuses, to change the remote server or to switch to *preview* mode in order to sign-off pending changes. `More information on the dedicated repository <https://github.com/leplatrem/aboutremotesettings>`_.

.. note::

    With `Bug 1406036 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1406036>`_, about:remotesettings will be available natively.


About blocklists
----------------

Addons, certificates, plugins, and GFX blocklists were the first use-cases of remote settings, and thus have some specificities.

For example, they leverage advanced customization options (bucket, content-signature certificate, target filtering etc.), and in order to be able to inspect and manipulate their data, the client instances must first be explicitly initialized.

.. code-block:: js

    const BlocklistClients = ChromeUtils.import("resource://services-common/blocklist-clients.js", {});

    BlocklistClients.initialize();

Then, in order to access a specific client instance, the bucket must be specified:

.. code-block:: js

    const collection = await RemoteSettings("addons", { bucketName: "blocklists" }).openCollection();

And in the storage inspector, the IndexedDB internal store will be prefixed with ``blocklists`` instead of ``main`` (eg. ``blocklists/addons``).

Commit message:

Bug 1451031 - Add JEXL filter support in Remote Settings r=mythmon
MozReview-Commit-ID: DwVdW1G3yZG

--HG--
extra : rebase_source : e030d29b915de8a1cbaa6f11f70231d1015febdf

services/common/docs/RemoteSettings.rst, after:

.. _services/remotesettings:

===============
Remote Settings
===============

The `remote-settings.js <https://dxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/services/common/remote-settings.js>`_ module offers the ability to fetch remote settings that are kept in sync with Mozilla servers.


Usage
=====

The ``get()`` method returns the list of entries for a specific key. Each entry can have arbitrary attributes, and can only be modified on the server.

.. code-block:: js

    const { RemoteSettings } = ChromeUtils.import("resource://services-common/remote-settings.js", {});

    const data = await RemoteSettings("a-key").get();

    /*
      data == [
        {label: "Yahoo",  enabled: true,  weight: 10, id: "d0782d8d", last_modified: 1522764475905},
        {label: "Google", enabled: true,  weight: 20, id: "8883955f", last_modified: 1521539068414},
        {label: "Ecosia", enabled: false, weight: 5,  id: "337c865d", last_modified: 1520527480321},
      ]
    */

    for(const entry of data) {
      // Do something with entry...
      // await InternalAPI.load(entry.id, entry.label, entry.weight);
    });

.. note::
    The ``id`` and ``last_modified`` (timestamp) attributes are assigned by the server.

Options
-------

The list can optionally be filtered or ordered:

.. code-block:: js

    const subset = await RemoteSettings("a-key").get({
      filters: {
        "property": "value"
      },
      order: "-weight"
    });

Events
------

The ``on()`` function registers handlers to be triggered when events occur.

The ``sync`` event allows to be notified when the remote settings are changed on the server side. Your handler is given an ``event`` object that contains a ``data`` attribute that has information about the changes:

- ``current``: current list of entries (after changes were applied);
- ``created``, ``updated``, ``deleted``: list of entries that were created/updated/deleted respectively.

.. code-block:: js

    RemoteSettings("a-key").on("sync", event => {
      const { data: { current } } = event;
      for(const entry of current) {
        // Do something with entry...
        // await InternalAPI.reload(entry.id, entry.label, entry.weight);
      }
    });

.. important::
    If one of the event handler fails, the others handlers for the same remote settings collection won't be executed.

.. note::
    Currently, the update of remote settings is triggered by the `nsBlocklistService <https://dxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/mozapps/extensions/nsBlocklistService.js>`_ (~ every 24H).

File attachments
----------------

When an entry has a file attached to it, it has an ``attachment`` attribute, which contains the file related information (url, hash, size, mimetype, etc.). Remote files are not downloaded automatically.

.. code-block:: js

    const data = await RemoteSettings("a-key").get();

    data.filter(d => d.attachment)
        .forEach(async ({ attachment: { url, filename, size } }) => {
          if (size < OS.freeDiskSpace) {
            await downloadLocally(url, filename);
          }
        });

Initial data
------------

For newly created user profiles, the list of entries returned by the ``.get()`` method will be empty until the first synchronization happens.

It is possible to package a dump of the server records that will be loaded into the local database when no synchronization has happened yet. It will thus serve as the default dataset and also reduce the amount of data to be downloaded on the first synchronization.

#. Place the JSON dump of the server records in the ``services/settings/dumps/main/`` folder
#. Add the filename to the ``FINAL_TARGET_FILES`` list in ``services/settings/dumps/main/moz.build``

Now, when ``RemoteSettings("some-key").get()`` is called from an empty profile, the ``some-key.json`` file is going to be loaded before the results are returned.


Targets and A/B testing
=======================

In order to deliver settings to subsets of the population, you can set targets on entries (platform, language, channel, version range, preferences values, samples, etc.) when editing records on the server.

From the client API standpoint, this is completely transparent: the ``.get()`` method — as well as the event data — will always filter the entries on which the target matches.

.. note::

    The remote settings targets follow the same approach as the :ref:`Normandy recipe client <components/normandy>` (ie. JEXL filters),


Uptake Telemetry
================

Some :ref:`uptake telemetry <telemetry/collection/uptake>` is collected in order to monitor how remote settings are propagated.

It is submitted to a single :ref:`keyed histogram <histogram-type-keyed>` whose id is ``UPTAKE_REMOTE_CONTENT_RESULT_1`` and the keys are prefixed with ``main/`` (eg. ``main/a-key`` in the above example).


Create new remote settings
==========================

Staff members can create new kinds of remote settings, following `this documentation <https://mana.mozilla.org/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=66655528>`_.

It basically consists in:

#. Choosing a key (eg. ``search-providers``)
#. Assigning collaborators to editors and reviewers groups
#. (*optional*) Define a JSONSchema to validate entries
#. (*optional*) Allow attachments on entries

And once done:

#. Create, modify or delete entries and let reviewers approve the changes
#. Wait for Firefox to pick-up the changes for your settings key


Debugging and testing
=====================

Trigger a synchronization manually
----------------------------------

The synchronization of every known remote settings clients can be triggered manually with ``pollChanges()``:

.. code-block:: js

    await RemoteSettings.pollChanges()

The synchronization of a single client can be forced with ``maybeSync()``:

.. code-block:: js

    const fakeTimestamp = Infinity;
    const fakeServerTime = Date.now();

    await RemoteSettings("a-key").maybeSync(fakeTimestamp, fakeServerTime)


Manipulate local data
---------------------

A handle on the local collection can be obtained with ``openCollection()``.

.. code-block:: js

    const collection = await RemoteSettings("a-key").openCollection();

And records can be created manually (as if they were synchronized from the server):

.. code-block:: js

    const record = await collection.create({
      domain: "website.com",
      usernameSelector: "#login-account",
      passwordSelector: "#pass-signin",
    }, { synced: true });

In order to bypass the potential target filtering of ``RemoteSettings("key").get()``, the low-level listing of records can be obtained with ``collection.list()``:

.. code-block:: js

    const subset = await collection.list({
      filters: {
        "property": "value"
      }
    });

The local data can be flushed with ``clear()``:

.. code-block:: js

    await collection.clear()

For further documentation in collection API, checkout the `kinto.js library <https://kintojs.readthedocs.io/>`_, which is in charge of the IndexedDB interactions behind-the-scenes.


Inspect local data
------------------

The internal IndexedDBs of remote settings can be accessed via the Storage Inspector in the `browser toolbox <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Browser_Toolbox>`_.

For example, the local data of the ``"key"`` collection can be accessed in the ``main/key`` IndexedDB store at *Browser Toolbox* > *Storage* > *IndexedDB* > *chrome* > *main/key*.


\about:remotesettings
---------------------

The ``about:remotesettings`` extension provides some tooling to inspect synchronization statuses, to change the remote server or to switch to *preview* mode in order to sign-off pending changes. `More information on the dedicated repository <https://github.com/leplatrem/aboutremotesettings>`_.

.. note::

    With `Bug 1406036 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1406036>`_, about:remotesettings will be available natively.


About blocklists
----------------

Addons, certificates, plugins, and GFX blocklists were the first use-cases of remote settings, and thus have some specificities.

For example, they leverage advanced customization options (bucket, content-signature certificate, target filtering etc.), and in order to be able to inspect and manipulate their data, the client instances must first be explicitly initialized.

.. code-block:: js

    const BlocklistClients = ChromeUtils.import("resource://services-common/blocklist-clients.js", {});

    BlocklistClients.initialize();

Then, in order to access a specific client instance, the bucket must be specified:

.. code-block:: js

    const collection = await RemoteSettings("addons", { bucketName: "blocklists" }).openCollection();

And in the storage inspector, the IndexedDB internal store will be prefixed with ``blocklists`` instead of ``main`` (eg. ``blocklists/addons``).
