.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_69_release_notes:

NSS 3.69 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.69 was released on **5 August 2021**.



`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_69_RTM. NSS 3.69 requires NSPR 4.32 or newer.

   NSS 3.69 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_69_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _bugs_fixed_in_nss_3.69:

`Bugs fixed in NSS 3.69 <#bugs_fixed_in_nss_3.69>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 1722613 - Disable DTLS 1.0 and 1.1 by default
   - Bug 1720226 - integrity checks in key4.db not happening on private components with AES_CBC
   - Bug 1720235 - SSL handling of signature algorithms ignores environmental invalid algorithms.
   - Bug 1721476 - sqlite 3.34 changed it's open semantics, causing nss failures.
   - Bug 1720230 - Gtest update changed the gtest reports, losing gtest details in all.sh reports.
   - Bug 1720228 - NSS incorrectly accepting 1536 bit DH primes in FIPS mode
   - Bug 1720232 - SQLite calls could timeout in starvation situations.
   - Bug 1720225 - Coverity/cpp scanner errors found in nss 3.67
   - Bug 1709817 - Import the NSS documentation from MDN in nss/doc.
   - Bug 1720227 - NSS using a tempdir to measure sql performance not active

`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.69 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared libraries. A
   program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with NSS 3.69 shared libraries
   without recompiling or relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs
   to the functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future versions of
   the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
