.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_85_release_notes:

NSS 3.85 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.85 was released on **10 November 2022**.


.. _distribution_information:

`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_85_RTM. NSS 3.85 requires NSPR 4.35 or newer.

   NSS 3.85 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_85_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.85:

`Changes in NSS 3.85 <#changes_in_nss_3.85>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 1792821 - Modification of the primes.c and dhe-params.c in order to have better looking tables.
   - Bug 1796815 - Update zlib in NSS to 1.2.13.
   - Bug 1796504 - Skip building modutil and shlibsign when building in Firefox.
   - Bug 1796504 - Use __STDC_VERSION__ rather than __STDC__ as a guard.
   - Bug 1796407 - Fix -Wunused-but-set-variable warning from clang 15.
   - Bug 1796308 - Fix -Wtautological-constant-out-of-range-compare and -Wtype-limits warnings.
   - Bug 1796281 - Followup: add missing stdint.h include.
   - Bug 1796281 - Fix -Wint-to-void-pointer-cast warnings.
   - Bug 1796280 - Fix -Wunused-{function,variable,but-set-variable} warnings on Windows.
   - Bug 1796079 - Fix -Wstring-conversion warnings.
   - Bug 1796075 - Fix -Wempty-body warnings.
   - Bug 1795242 - Fix unused-but-set-parameter warning.
   - Bug 1795241 - Fix unreachable-code warnings.
   - Bug 1795222 - Mark _nss_version_c unused on clang-cl.
   - Bug 1795668 - Remove redundant variable definitions in lowhashtest.
   - No bug - Add note about python executable to build instructions.

`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.85 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
