.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_66_release_notes:

NSS 3.66 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.66 was released on **27 May 2021**.



`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_66_RTM. NSS 3.66 requires NSPR 4.30 or newer.

   NSS 3.66 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_66_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _bugs_fixed_in_nss_3.66:

`Bugs fixed in NSS 3.66 <#bugs_fixed_in_nss_3.66>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   -  Bug 1710716 - Remove Expired Sonera Class2 CA from NSS.
   -  Bug 1710716 - Remove Expired Root Certificates from NSS - QuoVadis Root Certification Authority.
   -  Bug 1708307 - Remove Trustis FPS Root CA from NSS.
   -  Bug 1707097 - Add Certum Trusted Root CA to NSS.
   -  Bug 1707097 - Add Certum EC-384 CA to NSS.
   -  Bug 1703942 - Add ANF Secure Server Root CA to NSS.
   -  Bug 1697071 - Add GLOBALTRUST 2020 root cert to NSS.
   -  Bug 1712184 - NSS tools manpages need to be updated to reflect that sqlite is the default database.
   -  Bug 1712230 - Don't build ppc-gcm.s with clang integrated assembler.
   -  Bug 1712211 - Strict prototype error when trying to compile nss code that includes blapi.h.
   -  Bug 1710773 - NSS needs FIPS 180-3 FIPS indicators.
   -  Bug 1709291 - Add VerifyCodeSigningCertificateChain.
   -  Use GNU tar for the release helper script.

`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.66 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared libraries. A
   program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with NSS 3.66 shared libraries
   without recompiling or relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs
   to the functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future versions of
   the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).

`Notes <#notes>`__
------------------

.. container::

   To realign the NSS and Firefox release schedules, the next cycle for
   NSS 3.67 will be very short and the release happen on June 10th.
   https://wiki.mozilla.org/NSS:Release_Versions

   Bug 1712230 introduced a correctness issue for GCM on ppcle64, the fix will
   be part of NSS 3.67.
