.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_74_release_notes:

NSS 3.74 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.74 was released on **6 January 2022**.


.. _distribution_information:

`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_74_RTM. NSS 3.74 requires NSPR 4.32 or newer.

   NSS 3.74 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_74_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.74:

`Changes in NSS 3.74 <#changes_in_nss_3.74>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 966856 - mozilla::pkix: support SHA-2 hashes in CertIDs in OCSP responses.
   - Bug 1553612 - Ensure clients offer consistent ciphersuites after HRR.
   - Bug 1721426 - NSS does not properly restrict server keys based on policy.
   - Bug 1733003 - Set nssckbi version number to 2.54.
   - Bug 1735407 - Replace Google Trust Services LLC (GTS) R4 root certificate in NSS.
   - Bug 1735407 - Replace Google Trust Services LLC (GTS) R3 root certificate in NSS.
   - Bug 1735407 - Replace Google Trust Services LLC (GTS) R2 root certificate in NSS.
   - Bug 1735407 - Replace Google Trust Services LLC (GTS) R1 root certificate in NSS.
   - Bug 1735407 - Replace GlobalSign ECC Root CA R4 in NSS.
   - Bug 1733560 - Remove Expired Root Certificates from NSS - DST Root CA X3.
   - Bug 1740807 - Remove Expiring Cybertrust Global Root and GlobalSign root certificates from NSS.
   - Bug 1741930 - Add renewed Autoridad de Certificacion Firmaprofesional CIF A62634068 root certificate to NSS.
   - Bug 1740095 - Add iTrusChina ECC root certificate to NSS.
   - Bug 1740095 - Add iTrusChina RSA root certificate to NSS.
   - Bug 1738805 - Add ISRG Root X2 root certificate to NSS.
   - Bug 1733012 - Add Chunghwa Telecom's HiPKI Root CA - G1 root certificate to NSS.
   - Bug 1738028 - Avoid a clang 13 unused variable warning in opt build.
   - Bug 1735028 - Check for missing signedData field.
   - Bug 1737470 - Ensure DER encoded signatures are within size limits.



`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.74 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
