.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_95_release_notes:

NSS 3.95 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.95 was released on *16th November 2023**.

`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_95_RTM. NSS 3.95 requires NSPR 4.35 or newer.

   NSS 3.95 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_95_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.95:

`Changes in NSS 3.95 <#changes_in_nss_3.95>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

  - Bug 1842932 - Bump builtins version number.
  - Bug 1851044: Remove Email trust bit from Autoridad de Certificacion Firmaprofesional CIF A62634068 root cert.
  - Bug 1855318: Remove 4 DigiCert (Symantec/Verisign) Root Certificates from NSS.
  - Bug 1851049: Remove 3 TrustCor Root Certificates from NSS.
  - Bug 1850982 - Remove Camerfirma root certificates from NSS.
  - Bug 1842935 - Remove old Autoridad de Certificacion Firmaprofesional Certificate.
  - Bug 1860670 - Add four Commscope root certificates to NSS.
  - Bug 1850598 - Add TrustAsia Global Root CA G3 and G4 root certificates.
  - Bug 1863605 - Include P-384 and P-521 Scalar Validation from HACL*
  - Bug 1861728 - Include P-256 Scalar Validation from HACL*.
  - Bug 1861265 After the HACL 256 ECC patch, NSS incorrectly encodes 256 ECC without DER wrapping at the softoken level
  - Bug 1837987:Add means to provide library parameters to C_Initialize
  - Bug 1573097 - clang format
  - Bug 1854795 - add OSXSAVE and XCR0 tests to AVX2 detection.
  - Bug 1858241 - Typo in ssl3_AppendHandshakeNumber
  - Bug 1858241 - Introducing input check of ssl3_AppendHandshakeNumber
  - Bug 1573097 - Fix Invalid casts in instance.c

`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.95 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
