.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_79_release_notes:

NSS 3.79 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.79 was released on **31 May 2022**. NSS 3.79 is an ESR release.




`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_79_RTM. NSS 3.79 requires NSPR 4.34 or newer.

   NSS 3.79 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_79_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.79:

`Changes in NSS 3.79 <#changes_in_nss_3.79>`__
----------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 205717 - Use PK11_GetSlotInfo instead of raw C_GetSlotInfo calls.
   - Bug 1766907 - Update mercurial in clang-format docker image.
   - Bug 1454072 - Use of uninitialized pointer in lg_init after alloc fail.
   - Bug 1769295 - selfserv and tstclnt should use PR_GetPrefLoopbackAddrInfo.
   - Bug 1753315 - Add SECMOD_LockedModuleHasRemovableSlots.
   - Bug 1387919 - Fix secasn1d parsing of indefinite SEQUENCE inside indefinite GROUP.
   - Bug 1765753 - Added RFC8422 compliant TLS <= 1.2 undefined/compressed ECPointFormat extension alerts.
   - Bug 1765753 - TLS 1.3 Server: Send protocol_version alert on unsupported ClientHello.legacy_version.
   - Bug 1764788 - Correct invalid record inner and outer content type alerts.
   - Bug 1757075 - NSS does not properly import or export pkcs12 files with large passwords and pkcs5v2 encoding.
   - Bug 1766978 - improve error handling after nssCKFWInstance_CreateObjectHandle.
   - Bug 1767590 - Initialize pointers passed to NSS_CMSDigestContext_FinishMultiple.
   - Bug 1769302 - NSS 3.79 should depend on NSPR 4.34


`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.79 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
