.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_83_release_notes:

NSS 3.83 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.83 was released on **15 September 2022**.


.. _distribution_information:

`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_83_RTM. NSS 3.83 requires NSPR 4.34.1 or newer.

   NSS 3.83 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_83_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.83:

`Changes in NSS 3.83 <#changes_in_nss_3.83>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 1788875 - Remove set-but-unused variables from SEC_PKCS12DecoderValidateBags
   - Bug 1563221 - remove older oses that are unused part3/ BeOS
   - Bug 1563221 - remove older unix support in NSS part 3 Irix
   - Bug 1563221 - remove support for older unix in NSS part 2 DGUX
   - Bug 1563221 - remove support for older unix in NSS part 1 OSF
   - Bug 1778413 - Set nssckbi version number to 2.58
   - Bug 1785297 - Add two SECOM root certificates to NSS
   - Bug 1787075 - Add two DigitalSign root certificates to NSS
   - Bug 1778412 - Remove Camerfirma Global Chambersign Root from NSS
   - Bug 1771100 - Added bug reference and description to disabled UnsolicitedServerNameAck bogo ECH test
   - Bug 1779361 - Removed skipping of ECH on equality of private and public SNI server name
   - Bug 1779357 - Added comment and bug reference to ECHRandomHRRExtension bogo test
   - Bug 1779370 - Added Bogo shim client HRR test support. Fixed overwriting of CHInner.random on HRR
   - Bug 1779234 - Added check for server only sending ECH extension with retry configs in EncryptedExtensions and if not accepting ECH. Changed config setting behavior to skip configs with unsupported mandatory extensions instead of failing
   - Bug 1771100 - Added ECH client support to BoGo shim. Changed CHInner creation to skip TLS 1.2 only extensions to comply with BoGo
   - Bug 1771100 - Added ECH server support to BoGo shim. Fixed NSS ECH server accept_confirmation bugs
   - Bug 1771100 - Update BoGo tests to recent BoringSSL version
   - Bug 1785846 - Bump minimum NSPR version to 4.34.1

`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.83 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
