.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_87_release_notes:

NSS 3.87 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.87 was released on **5 January 2023**.


.. _distribution_information:

`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_87_RTM. NSS 3.87 requires NSPR 4.35 or newer.

   NSS 3.87 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_87_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.87:

`Changes in NSS 3.87 <#changes_in_nss_3.87>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 1803226 - NULL password encoding incorrect.
   - Bug 1804071 - Fix rng stub signature for fuzzing builds.
   - Bug 1803595 - Updating the compiler parsing for build.
   - Bug 1749030 - Modification of supported compilers.
   - Bug 1774654 tstclnt crashes when accessing gnutls server without a user cert in the database.
   - Bug 1751707 - Add configuration option to enable source-based coverage sanitizer.
   - Bug 1751705 - Update ECCKiila generated files.
   - Bug 1730353 - Add support for the LoongArch 64-bit architecture.
   - Bug 1798823 - add checks for zero-length RSA modulus to avoid memory errors and failed assertions later.
   - Bug 1798823 - Additional zero-length RSA modulus checks.



`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.87 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
