.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_86_release_notes:

NSS 3.86 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.86 was released on **8 December 2022**.




`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_86_RTM. NSS 3.86 requires NSPR 4.35 or newer.

   NSS 3.86 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_86_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.86:

`Changes in NSS 3.86 <#changes_in_nss_3.86>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 1803190 - conscious language removal in NSS.
   - Bug 1794506 - Set nssckbi version number to 2.60.
   - Bug 1803453 - Set CKA_NSS_SERVER_DISTRUST_AFTER and CKA_NSS_EMAIL_DISTRUST_AFTER for 3 TrustCor Root Certificates.
   - Bug 1799038 - Remove Staat der Nederlanden EV Root CA from NSS.
   - Bug 1797559 - Remove EC-ACC root cert from NSS.
   - Bug 1794507 - Remove SwissSign Platinum CA - G2 from NSS.
   - Bug 1794495 - Remove Network Solutions Certificate Authority.
   - Bug 1802331 - compress docker image artifact with zstd.
   - Bug 1799315 - Migrate nss from AWS to GCP.
   - Bug 1800989 - Enable static builds in the CI.
   - Bug 1765759 - Removing SAW docker from the NSS build system.
   - Bug 1783231 - Initialising variables in the rsa blinding code.
   - Bug 320582 - Implementation of the double-signing of the message for ECDSA.
   - Bug 1783231 - Adding exponent blinding for RSA.



`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.86 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
