.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_77_release_notes:

NSS 3.77 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.77 was released on **31 March 2022**.




`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_77_RTM. NSS 3.77 requires NSPR 4.32 or newer.

   NSS 3.77 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_77_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.77:

`Changes in NSS 3.77 <#changes_in_nss_3.77>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 1762244 - resolve mpitests build failure on Windows.
   - Bug 1761779 - Fix link to TLS page on wireshark wiki
   - Bug 1754890 - Add two D-TRUST 2020 root certificates.
   - Bug 1751298 - Add Telia Root CA v2 root certificate.
   - Bug 1751305 - Remove expired explicitly distrusted certificates from certdata.txt.
   - Bug 1005084 - support specific RSA-PSS parameters in mozilla::pkix
   - Bug 1753535 - Remove obsolete stateEnd check in SEC_ASN1DecoderUpdate.
   - Bug 1756271 - Remove token member from NSSSlot struct.
   - Bug 1602379 - Provide secure variants of mpp_pprime and mpp_make_prime.
   - Bug 1757279 - Support UTF-8 library path in the module spec string.
   - Bug 1396616 - Update nssUTF8_Length to RFC 3629 and fix buffer overrun.
   - Bug 1760827 - Add a CI Target for gcc-11.
   - Bug 1760828 - Change to makefiles for gcc-4.8.
   - Bug 1741688 - Update googletest to 1.11.0
   - Bug 1759525 - Add SetTls13GreaseEchSize to experimental API.
   - Bug 1755264 - TLS 1.3 Illegal legacy_version handling/alerts.
   - Bug 1755904 - Fix calculation of ECH HRR Transcript.
   - Bug 1758741 - Allow ld path to be set as environment variable.
   - Bug 1760653 - Ensure we don't read uninitialized memory in ssl gtests.
   - Bug 1758478 - Fix DataBuffer Move Assignment.
   - Bug 1552254 - internal_error alert on Certificate Request with sha1+ecdsa in TLS 1.3
   - Bug 1755092 - rework signature verification in mozilla::pkix



`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.77 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).

`Notes <#notes>`__
------------------

.. container::

   For users upgrading from NSS < 3.76.1 or NSS < 3.68.3, this release improves
   the stability of NSS when used in a multi-threaded environment. In
   particular, it fixes memory safety violations that can occur when PKCS#11
   tokens are removed while in use (CVE-2022-1097). We presume that with enough
   effort these memory safety violations are exploitable.

