.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_80_release_notes:

NSS 3.80 release notes
======================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.80 was released on **23 June 2022**.


.. _distribution_information:

`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_80_RTM. NSS 3.80 requires NSPR 4.34 or newer.

   NSS 3.80 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_80_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.80:

`Changes in NSS 3.80 <#changes_in_nss_3.80>`__
----------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 1774720 - Fix SEC_ERROR_ALGORITHM_MISMATCH entry in SECerrs.h.
   - Bug 1617956 - Add support for asynchronous client auth hooks.
   - Bug 1497537 - nss-policy-check: make unknown keyword check optional.
   - Bug 1765383 - GatherBuffer: Reduced plaintext buffer allocations by allocating it on initialization. Replaced redundant code with assert. Debug builds: Added buffer freeing/allocation for each record.
   - Bug 1773022 - Mark 3.79 as an ESR release.
   - Bug 1764206 - Bump nssckbi version number for June.
   - Bug 1759815 - Remove Hellenic Academic 2011 Root.
   - Bug 1770267 - Add E-Tugra Roots.
   - Bug 1768970 - Add Certainly Roots.
   - Bug 1764392 - Add DigitCert Roots.
   - Bug 1759794 - Protect SFTKSlot needLogin with slotLock.
   - Bug 1366464 - Compare signature and signatureAlgorithm fields in legacy certificate verifier.
   - Bug 1771497 - Uninitialized value in cert_VerifyCertChainOld.
   - Bug 1771495 - Unchecked return code in sec_DecodeSigAlg.
   - Bug 1771498 - Uninitialized value in cert_ComputeCertType.
   - Bug 1760998 - Avoid data race on primary password change.
   - Bug 1769063 - Replace ppc64 dcbzl intrinisic.
   - Bug 1771036 - Allow LDFLAGS override in makefile builds.


`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.80 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
