<?xml version="1.0"?>

<!-- This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
   - License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
   - file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/. -->

<?xml-stylesheet href="chrome://global/skin" type="text/css"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="chrome://mochikit/content/tests/SimpleTest/test.css"
                 type="text/css"?>

<?xml-stylesheet href="chrome://browser/content/places/places.css"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="chrome://browser/skin/places/tree-icons.css"?>

<window xmlns="http://www.mozilla.org/keymaster/gatekeeper/there.is.only.xul"
        title="435322: Places tree view's formatting"
        onload="runTest();">

  <script type="application/javascript"
          src="chrome://browser/content/places/places-tree.js"/>
  <script src="chrome://mochikit/content/tests/SimpleTest/SimpleTest.js" />
  <script type="application/javascript" src="head.js" />

  <body xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" />

  <tree id="tree"
        is="places-tree"
        flatList="true"
        flex="1">
    <treecols>
      <treecol label="Title" id="title" anonid="title" primary="true" ordinal="1" flex="1"/>
      <splitter class="tree-splitter"/>
      <treecol label="Tags" id="tags" anonid="tags" flex="1"/>
      <splitter class="tree-splitter"/>
      <treecol label="Url" id="url" anonid="url" flex="1"/>
      <splitter class="tree-splitter"/>
      <treecol label="Visit Date" id="date" anonid="date" flex="1"/>
      <splitter class="tree-splitter"/>
      <treecol label="Visit Count" id="visitCount" anonid="visitCount" flex="1"/>
    </treecols>
    <treechildren flex="1"/>
  </tree>

  <script type="application/javascript">
  <![CDATA[

    /**
     * Bug 435322
     * https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=435322
     *
     * Ensures that date in places treeviews is correctly formatted.
     */

    function runTest() {
      SimpleTest.waitForExplicitFinish();

      function uri(spec) {
        return Services.io.newURI(spec);
      }

      (async function() {
        await PlacesUtils.history.clear();

        let midnight = new Date();
        midnight.setHours(0);
        midnight.setMinutes(0);
        midnight.setSeconds(0);
        midnight.setMilliseconds(0);

        // Add a visit 1ms before midnight, a visit at midnight, and
        // a visit 1ms after midnight.
        await PlacesTestUtils.addVisits([
          {uri: uri("http://before.midnight.com/"),
           visitDate: (midnight.getTime() - 1) * 1000,
           transition: PlacesUtils.history.TRANSITION_TYPED},
          {uri: uri("http://at.midnight.com/"),
           visitDate: (midnight.getTime()) * 1000,
           transition: PlacesUtils.history.TRANSITION_TYPED},
          {uri: uri("http://after.midnight.com/"),
           visitDate: (midnight.getTime() + 1) * 1000,
           transition: PlacesUtils.history.TRANSITION_TYPED}
        ]);

        // add a bookmark to the midnight visit
        let bm = await PlacesUtils.bookmarks.insert({
          parentGuid: PlacesUtils.bookmarks.toolbarGuid,
          index: PlacesUtils.bookmarks.DEFAULT_INDEX,
          url: "http://at.midnight.com/",
          title: "A bookmark at midnight",
          type: PlacesUtils.bookmarks.TYPE_BOOKMARK
        });

        // Make a history query.
        let query = PlacesUtils.history.getNewQuery();
        let opts = PlacesUtils.history.getNewQueryOptions();
        let queryURI = PlacesUtils.history.queryToQueryString(query, opts);

        // Setup the places tree contents.
        let tree = document.getElementById("tree");
        tree.place = queryURI;

        // loop through the rows and check formatting
        let treeView = tree.view;
        let rc = treeView.rowCount;
        ok(rc >= 3, "Rows found");
        let columns = tree.columns;
        ok(columns.count > 0, "Columns found");
        for (let r = 0; r < rc; r++) {
          let node = treeView.nodeForTreeIndex(r);
          ok(node, "Places node found");
          for (let ci = 0; ci < columns.count; ci++) {
            let c = columns.getColumnAt(ci);
            let text = treeView.getCellText(r, c);
            switch (c.element.getAttribute("anonid")) {
              case "title":
                // The title can differ, we did not set any title so we would
                // expect null, but in such a case the view will generate a title
                // through PlacesUIUtils.getBestTitle.
                if (node.title)
                  is(text, node.title, "Title is correct");
                break;
              case "url":
                is(text, node.uri, "Uri is correct");
                break;
              case "date":
                let timeObj = new Date(node.time / 1000);
                // Default is short date format.
                let dtOptions = {
                  dateStyle: "short",
                  timeStyle: "short"
                };

                // For today's visits we don't show date portion.
                if (node.uri == "http://at.midnight.com/" ||
                    node.uri == "http://after.midnight.com/") {
                  dtOptions.dateStyle = undefined;
                } else if (node.uri != "http://before.midnight.com/") {
                  // Avoid to test spurious uris, due to how the test works
                  // a redirecting uri could be put in the tree while we test.
                  break;
                }
                let timeStr = new Services.intl.DateTimeFormat(undefined, dtOptions).format(timeObj);

                is(text, timeStr, "Date format is correct");
                break;
              case "visitCount":
                is(text, 1, "Visit count is correct");
                break;
            }
          }
        }

        // Cleanup.
        await PlacesUtils.bookmarks.remove(bm.guid);
        await PlacesUtils.history.clear();
      })().then(SimpleTest.finish);
    }
  ]]>
  </script>
</window>
