.\"
.\" Copyright © 2002 Keith Packard, member of The XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of Keith Packard not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
.\" specific, written prior permission.  Keith Packard makes no
.\" representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It
.\" is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" KEITH PACKARD DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL KEITH PACKARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
.\" TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/lib/fontconfig/fc-cache/fc-cache.man,v 1.1.1.1 2002/02/14 23:34:11 keithp Exp $
.\"
.TH FC-CACHE 1 __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
fc-cache, fonts.cache \- create an index of FreeType font files in a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fc-cache"
.RI [ directory-name
\|.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If directory arguments are not given,
.I fc-cache
uses each directory in the current font configuration.  Each directory is
scanned for font files readable by FreeType.  A cache is created which
contains properties of each font and the associated filename.  This cache is
used to speed application startup when using the fontconfig library.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
.B fonts.cache
Maps file names to font properties.  Read by the fontconfig library at
application startup to locate appropriate fonts.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fontconfig(3)
