<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
  <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >
  %brandDTD;
  <!ENTITY % platformDTD SYSTEM
    "chrome://browser/locale/help/platformStrings.dtd" >
  %platformDTD;
]>
<!--
Contributors:
  Mark Pilgrim <pilgrim@gmail.com> (original author)
-->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Accessibility Features of &brandFullName;</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
  href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Accessibility Features of &brandFullName;</h1>

  <p>&brandShortName; includes many features to make the browser and web
    content accessible to all users, including those who have low vision, no
    vision, or limited ability to use a keyboard or mouse.</p>

  <div class="contentsBox">In this section:
    <ul>
    <li><a href="#using_a_keyboard">Using a Keyboard</a></li>
    <li><a href="#using_a_mouse">Using a Mouse</a></li>
    <li><a href="#fonts_and_colors">Fonts and Colors</a></li>
    <li><a href="#controlling_web_content">Controlling Web Content</a></li>
    <li><a href="#compatibility_with_assistive_technologies">Compatibility
      with Assistive Technologies</a></li>
    <li><a href="#finding_help_online">Finding Help Online</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>

  <h2 id="using_a_keyboard">Using a Keyboard</h2>

  <h3 id="keyboard_shortcuts">Keyboard Shortcuts</h3>

  <p>A list of common keyboard shortcuts is available in
    <a href="shortcuts.xhtml">&brandShortName; Keyboard Shortcuts</a>.
    Online, you can find <a target="_blank"
    href="http://www.mozilla.org/support/firefox/keyboard">a comparison
    chart of keyboard shortcuts</a> implemented in &brandShortName;,
    Microsoft Internet Explorer, and Opera.</p>

  <h3 id="always_use_cursor_keys">Always use the cursor keys to navigate within
    webpages</h3>

  <p><a href="prefs.xhtml#accessibility">Always use the cursor keys to navigate
    within webpages</a> allows you to move through web content as if
    you were inside a read-only editor.
    You can use the keyboard to select web content and copy it to the
    clipboard.  You can enable this feature by selecting &pref.menuPath;,
    opening the <em>General</em> tab in the <em>Advanced</em> panel,
    and checking the <em>Always use the cursor keys to navigate within webpages
    </em> &pref.singular;.</p>

  <p>You can press <kbd>F7</kbd> at any time to turn this feature on or
    off.  When you press <kbd>F7</kbd>, &brandShortName; will
    ask if you really want to turn on this feature.  You can disable
    this prompt by selecting <em>Don't show this dialog again.</em></p>

  <h3 id="find_as_you_type">Search for text when I start typing</h3>

  <p><a href="prefs.xhtml#accessibility">Search for text when I start typing</a>
    allows you to quickly navigate to text or hyperlinks in a web page.  This
    feature has two modes. Press <abbr title="forward slash"><kbd>/</kbd></abbr>
    and start typing to search all text on the current page, or press
    <abbr title="apostrophe"><kbd>'</kbd></abbr> before your string to search
    hyperlinks only.  &brandShortName; will highlight matching text or hyperlinks
    as you type.</p>

  <p>The following keyboard shortcuts control this feature:</p>

  <ul>
    <li>Type more characters to narrow your search.  &brandShortName;
      will highlight the next matching hyperlink or text or alert you
      that nothing matched.</li>
    <li>Press &accelKey;+<kbd>G</kbd> or <kbd>F3</kbd> to find the next
      occurrence of your current search string.</li>
    <li>Press &accelKey;+&shiftKey;+<kbd>G</kbd> or &shiftKey;+<kbd>F3</kbd>
      to find the previous occurrence of your current search string.</li>
    <li>Press <kbd>Backspace</kbd> to undo the last character you typed.
      &brandShortName; will back up to the previously highlighted text.</li>
    <li>Press <kbd>Esc</kbd> to cancel a search.  You can also cancel
      a search by changing focus, scrolling the page with the mouse or
      keyboard, or simply waiting for the timeout.</li>
  </ul>

  <p>You can change the default behavior of this feature by selecting
    &pref.menuPath;, opening the <em>General</em> tab of the <em>Advanced</em>
    panel, and checking the <em>Search for text when I start typing</em>
    &pref.singular;.  If this option is checked, you can start typing at any
    time to auto-start an inline search. By default auto-started searches look
    for all text on the page. You can still explicitly press
    <abbr title="apostrophe"><kbd>'</kbd></abbr> or
    <abbr title="forward slash"><kbd>/</kbd></abbr> to start finding
    in one mode or the other.</p>

  <p>You can use this feature to get to buttons, text boxes and other
    form controls.  Search for the text immediately before the form control
    you want and press <kbd>Tab</kbd>. Pressing <kbd>Tab</kbd> automatically
    exits the search and sets focus to the next form field or button
    after the highlighted text.</p>

  <h2 id="using_a_mouse">Using a Mouse</h2>

  <h3 id="common_mouse_shortcuts">Common Mouse Shortcuts</h3>

  <p>A list of common mouse shortcuts is available in
    <a href="mouse_shortcuts.xhtml">&brandShortName; Mouse
    Shortcuts</a>.</p>

  <h2 id="fonts_and_colors">Fonts and Colors</h2>

  <h3 id="overriding_page_fonts">Overriding Page Fonts</h3>

  <p>Some web sites may display text in fonts that are difficult to read,
    and other sites may rely on the browser's default fonts.  You can set
    your default fonts by going to &pref.menuPath;, selecting the
    <em>Content</em> panel, and selecting a default font and size in the
    <em>Fonts &amp; Colors</em> section.</p>

  <p>You can specify default fonts for different styles, including serif,
    sans-serif, and monospace by clicking the <em>Advanced</em> button.
    However, many web pages specify their own fonts, so your choices
    will have no effect on such pages.  To override the fonts defined by
    such pages, uncheck the <em>Allow pages to choose their own fonts, instead
    of my selections above</em> &pref.singular;.</p>

  <p>Note that some web pages may display incorrectly depending on your
    choice of a default font.</p>

  <h3 id="setting_a_minimum_font_size">Setting a Minimum Font Size</h3>

  <p>Some web sites may display text which is too small to read
    comfortably.  To make such pages easier to read, you can set a minimum
    font size. On web pages that try to display text smaller than this
    size, &brandShortName; will enlarge the text to your chosen size.</p>

  <p>To set a minimum font size, go to &pref.menuPath;, select the
    <em>Content</em> panel, and click the <em>Advanced</em> button in the
    <em>Fonts &amp; Colors</em> section.  You can specify a minimum font
    size from the dropdown menu.</p>

  <p>Note that some web pages may display incorrectly depending on your
    choice of a minimum font size.</p>

  <h3 id="resizing_page_text">Resizing Page Text</h3>

  <p>You can temporarily change the size of text on any web page in the
    <span class="menuPath">View &gt; Text Size</span> menu.  The new
    size will remain in effect until you close your browser window or
    tab, even if you navigate to a different web site.</p>

  <p>The following keyboard shortcuts control text size:</p>

  <ul>
    <li>Press &accelKey;+<kbd><abbr title="plus">+</abbr></kbd> to
      increase the text size.  This zooms the text to 120% of its original
      size, then 150%, 200%, 300%, 450%, 675%, 1013%, and 1519%.</li>
    <li>Press &accelKey;+<kbd><abbr title="minus">-</abbr></kbd> to
      decrease the text size.  This zooms the text to 90% of its original
      size, then 50%, 33%, 22%, 15%, 10%, 7%, 4%, 3%, 2%, and 1%.</li>
    <li>Press &accelKey;+<kbd>0</kbd> to reset the text size to the web
      page's default size.</li>
  </ul>

  <p>Note that some web pages may display incorrectly if you increase or
      decrease the text size.</p>

  <h3 id="overriding_page_colors">Overriding Page Colors</h3>

  <p>Some web sites may display text and background colors that are
    difficult to read, and other sites may rely on the browser's default
    colors.  You can set your default colors by going to &pref.menuPath;,
    selecting the <em>Content</em> panel, and clicking the <em>Colors</em>
    button in the <em>Fonts &amp; Colors</em> section.  You can set
    default text and background colors, as well as default colors for
    visited and unvisited hyperlinks.  You can also specify whether
    hyperlinks should be underlined.</p>

  <p>However, many web pages set their own colors, so your choices will
    have no effect.  To override the colors defined by web pages, uncheck
    the <em>Allow pages to choose their own colors, instead of my
    selections above</em> &pref.singular;.</p>

  <div class="noMac">

    <h3 id="using_a_high_contrast_theme">Using a High Contrast Theme</h3>

    <p>&brandShortName; automatically detects if you are using a High
      Contrast theme and displays everything in your high contrast color
      scheme.  This overrides all other other browser or web page
      settings, and it affects the &brandShortName; interface itself (all
      menus, windows, and dialog boxes) and the content of any web page
      you visit.</p>

    <p class="win">To use a High Contrast theme, go to
      <span class="menuPath">Start Menu &gt; Control Panel &gt;
      Accessibility Options &gt; Display</span> and check the
      <em>Use High Contrast</em> &pref.singular;.</p>

  </div>

  <h2 id="controlling_web_content">Controlling Web Content</h2>

  <h3 id="blocking_popup_windows">Blocking Popup Windows</h3>

  <p>See <a href="popup.xhtml">Controlling Popups</a> for information on
    blocking popup windows.</p>

  <h3 id="turning_off_java_applets">Turning Off Java Applets</h3>

  <p>Some web pages provide a rich interactive experience with Java&trade;
    applets.  However, some users that rely on keyboard navigation may
    experience problems with some Java applets that automatically set
    focus and do not provide a way to <q>break out</q> of the applet and
    navigate to the rest of the web page.  If this is a problem for you,
    you can disable Java by going to &pref.menuPath;, selecting the
    <em>Content</em> and unchecking the <em>Enable Java</em>
    &pref.singular;.</p>

  <h3 id="restricting_javascript_behavior">Restricting JavaScript Behavior</h3>

  <p>You can turn off JavaScript entirely by going to &pref.menuPath;,
    selecting the <em>Content</em> panel, and unchecking <em>Enable
    JavaScript</em>.  Some web pages rely on JavaScript and may not work
    properly if JavaScript is disabled.</p>

  <p>If you do not wish to disable JavaScript entirely, there are also a
    number of advanced JavaScript settings to restrict the behavior of
    scripts.  Immediately after the <em>Enable JavaScript</em> checkbox,
    click the <em>Advanced</em> button to open the <em>Advanced JavaScript
    Settings</em> window.  You can control whether scripts are allowed
    to move or resize existing windows, raise or lower windows, disable or
    replace context menus, hide the status bar, or change status bar
    text.</p>

  <h2 id="compatibility_with_assistive_technologies">Compatibility With
    Assistive Technologies</h2>

  <p>The latest information about compatibility with third-party assistive
    technologies is online at
    <a target="_blank" href="http://www.mozilla.org/access/compatibility">Access
    Mozilla: Compatibility with assistive technologies</a>.</p>

  <h2 id="finding_help_online">Finding Help Online</h2>

  <div class="win">

    <p>Freedom Scientific maintains a number of
      <a target="_blank" href="http://www.freedomscientific.com/fs_support/User_Groups.asp">mailing
      lists for JAWS users</a>.</p>

    <p>GW Micro maintains a number of
      <a target="_blank" href="http://www.gwmicro.com/Support/Email_Lists/">mailing
      lists for Window Eyes users</a>.</p>
  </div>

  <p>You may <span class="win">also</span> post accessibility questions to the
    <a target="_blank" href="http://forums.mozillazine.org/viewforum.php?f=38">&brandShortName;
    Support forum</a>.</p>

  <div class="contentsBox"><em>29 Aug 2006</em></div>

  <p>Copyright &copy; &copyright.years; Contributors to the Mozilla Help Viewer
    Project.</p>

</body>
</html>
