<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
    <!ENTITY % platformDTD SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/help/platformStrings.dtd" >
    %platformDTD;
]>
<!--
Contributors:
  David Tenser <david.tenser@comhem.se> (original author)
  Steffen Wilberg <steffen.wilberg@web.de>
-->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
	<title>Managing Cookies</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>
<h1>Managing Cookies</h1>

<p>This document explains what cookies are, how they are used, and how you can gain
  control over the cookies stored on your computer by using the Cookie Manager in
  &brandFullName;.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#what_is_a_cookie">What is a Cookie?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#setting_up_cookie_rules">Setting Up Cookie Rules</a></li>
    <li><a href="#accepting_and_blocking_cookies">Accepting and Blocking Cookies</a></li>
    <li><a href="#cookies_exceptions">The Cookies Exceptions Window</a></li>
    <li><a href="#view_cookies">The View Cookies Window</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="what_is_a_cookie">What is a Cookie?</h2>

<p>A cookie is a file created by an Internet site to store information on your
  computer, such as your preferences when visiting that site. When you visit a site
  that uses cookies, the site might ask &brandShortName; to place one or more cookies
  on your hard disk.</p>

<p>Later, when you return to the site, &brandShortName; sends back the cookies that
  belong to the site. This allows the site to present you with information customized
  to fit your needs.</p>

<p>Cookies can also store personally identifiable information. Personally identifiable
  information is information that can be used to identify or contact you, such as
  your name, e-mail address, home or work address, or telephone number. However, a
  web site only has access to the personal information that you provide. For
  example, a web site cannot determine your e-mail address unless you provide it. Also,
  a web site cannot gain access to other information on your computer.</p>

<p>When you use the default cookie settings, this activity is invisible to you,
  and you won't know when a web site is setting a cookie or when &brandShortName;
  is sending a web site its cookie. However, you can set your cookies
  &pref.plural; so that you will be asked before a cookie is set. You can also
  restrict the lifetime of cookies to your current &brandShortName; session.</p>

<h2 id="setting_up_cookie_rules">Setting Up Cookie Rules</h2>

<p>By default &brandShortName; accepts all cookies, including cookies which
  would allow a site to recognize you effectively forever. If this doesn't suit
  you, you can tell &brandShortName; to delete all cookies when you close
  &brandShortName;:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Select &pref.menuPath;.</li>
  <li>Click the <em>Privacy</em> panel, and then click on the <em>Cookies</em>
    tab.</li>
  <li>Select the <em>until I close &brandShortName;</em> &pref.singular; from
    the <em>Keep Cookies</em> combo box.</li>
</ol>

<p>If you want to grant sites you trust the ability to store cookies permanently
  (e.g., to allow you to log in automatically to a site), click
  <a href="#cookies_exceptions"><em>Exceptions</em></a>, enter the site address,
  and click <em>Allow</em>.</p>

<h3 id="all_the_settings">All the Settings</h3>

<p>These are the &pref.plural; that affect how cookies are managed by
  &brandShortName;:</p>

<dl>
  <dt>Allow sites to set cookies</dt>
  <dd><p>If you don't want any sites to store cookies on your computer, uncheck
    this &pref.singular;. Note that some sites may not work properly when
    cookies are disabled. If you want to grant certain sites the ability to
    store cookies, open the <a href="#cookies_exceptions">Cookies Exceptions
    Window</a> by clicking <em>Exceptions</em>, enter the site address, and
    click <em>Allow</em> or <em>Allow for Session</em>.</p></dd>
  <dt>for the originating web site only</dt>
  <dd>
    <p>If &brandShortName; stores a site's cookie, it will return the cookie
      only to that particular site.  &brandShortName; will not provide one site
      with cookies set by another. Since a web site can only receive its own
      cookies, it can learn about your activities while you are at that site
      but not your activities in general while surfing the Web.</p>
    <p>However, sometimes a web site displays content that is hosted on another
      site. That content can be anything from an image to text or an
      advertisement. The other web site that hosts also has the ability to
      store a cookie in &brandShortName;, even though you haven't visited the
      site directly.</p>
    <p>Cookies that are stored by a site other than the one you are visiting
      are called third-party cookies or foreign cookies. Web sites sometimes
      use third-party cookies with transparent GIFs, which are special images
      that help sites count users, track email responses, learn more about how
      visitors use the site, or customize your browsing experience.
      (Transparent GIFs are also known as web beacons or web bugs.) When this
      checkbox is checked, it blocks these foreign cookies from being
      stored.</p>
  </dd>
  <dt>unless I have removed Cookies set by the site</dt>
  <dd><p>If you remove Cookies in the <em>View Cookies</em> dialog while this
    checkbox is checked, &brandShortName; won't allow the respective sites to
    store cookies again.</p></dd>
  <dt>Keep Cookies:</dt>
  <dd>
  <ul>
    <li><strong>until they expire</strong>: If this &pref.singular; is selected,
      each cookie will be removed when it reaches its expiration date.</li>
    <li><strong>until I close &brandShortName;:</strong> If this &pref.singular;
      is selected, cookies will be removed when you restart
      &brandShortName;. Web sites requiring the use of cookies will still
      work, but if you restart &brandShortName;, the web site will think that
      you logged into the site for the first time again.</li>
    <li><strong>ask me every time:</strong> Display an alert every time a web
      site tries to store a cookie to ask you if you want that cookie
      stored.</li>
  </ul>
  </dd>
</dl>

<h2 id="accepting_and_blocking_cookies">Accepting and Blocking Cookies</h2>

<p>If you've chosen <em>ask me every time</em> from the <em>Keep Cookies</em>
  combo box, you'll see a dialog whenever a site tries to store a cookie on your
  computer providing the following options:</p>

<dl>
  <dt>Allow</dt>
  <dd>To allow this particular cookie, just click <em>Allow</em>. Use this if
    you trust the site.</dd>
  <dt>Allow for Session</dt>
  <dd>If you want to allow this cookie for now, but have it deleted when you
    exit &brandShortName;, click <em>Allow for Session</em>. Use this if the
    site doesn't work without cookies, but you don't want to have a permanent
    cookie stored for it.</dd>
  <dt>Deny</dt>
  <dd>If you don't want this cookie to be stored, click <em>Deny</em>. Use this
    if you don't trust the site or suspect that it's compromising your privacy.</dd>
  <dt>Use my choice for all cookies from this site</dt>
  <dd>Select this checkbox before clicking any of the buttons if you want
    &brandShortName; to remember your decision and not ask again. The site will
    be added to the <a href="#cookies_exceptions">Cookie Exceptions Window</a>,
    where you can revert your choice should you wish to do so later.</dd>
</dl>

<h2 id="cookies_exceptions">The Cookies Exceptions Window</h2>

<p>Access this window by clicking the <em>Exceptions</em> button in cookies
  &pref.plural;. Here you can make exceptions from your general cookies
  &pref.plural; for specific sites. Using exceptions, you can allow all cookies,
  reject all cookies, or allow all cookies but have them deleted when you exit
  &brandShortName;, regardless of your other cookie settings.</p>

<p>To add a site to this list, simply type the site's domain name in the field
  labeled <em>Address of web site</em>. Then click <em>Block</em> to reject
  cookies from the site, click <em>Allow</em> to allow cookies from the site,
  or click <em>Allow for Session</em> to allow cookies from the site but have
  them deleted when you exit &brandShortName;.</p>

<p>To remove a site from this list, select it and click <em>Remove Site</em>. To
  clear the list completely, click <em>Remove All Sites</em>. This will clear
  the exceptions list so your general cookies &pref.plural; apply.</p>

<h2 id="view_cookies">The View Cookies Window</h2>

<p>Use the <em>View Cookies</em> window to view and remove cookies. To access it,
  click the <em>View Cookies</em> button in cookies &pref.plural;.</p>

<p>This window lists all cookies currently stored on your
  computer, grouped by site. You can expand the sites and select a cookie to
  display more information about it. You can also search for a site or a cookie
  name by typing in the search bar.</p>

<p>To remove a cookie from the list, select it and click <em>Remove Cookie</em>.
  To remove a site's cookies, select the site and click <em>Remove
  Cookie(s)</em>. To wipe all cookies, click <em>Remove All Cookies</em>.
  (This is the same as clicking the <em>Clear Cookies Now</em> button from the
  <a href="prefs.xhtml#privacy_cookies"><em>Cookies</em> tab</a> of the
  <em>Privacy</em> panel of the &pref.pluralCaps; window.)</p>

<div class="contentsBox"><em>07 July 2005</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; 2003-2006 Contributors to the Mozilla Help Viewer Project.</p>

</body>
</html>
