<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
]
>
#
#Contributors:
#  Nilson Cain <nilson1690@netscape.net> (original author)

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
   <title>Customizing &brandFullName;</title>
   <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>
<h1>Customizing &brandFullName;</h1>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
 <ul>
   <li><a href="#can_i_customize_my_toolbars">Can I Customize My Toolbars?</a></li>
   <li><a href="#how_do_i_customize_the_toolbars">How Do I Customize the Toolbars?</a></li>
   <li><a href="#themes">Themes</a></li>
   <li><a href="#extensions">Extensions</a></li>
 </ul>
</div>
<h2 id="can_i_customize_my_toolbars">Can I Customize My Toolbars?</h2>

<p>This will tell you how to add, remove, and rearrange toolbars in &brandFullName;.</p>

<div>
Yes, you can customize the toolbars in &brandShortName;.  For those who are unfamiliar
  with the terminology, a toolbar is the (usually gray) box above the area that the
  Web site is displayed.  The toolbar contains by default the following items:
<ul>
  <li><strong>Menu Bar</strong>: This is the toolbar that contains the browser menus (File,
  Edit, Help, etc.).</li>
  <li><strong>Navigation Bar</strong>: This is the toolbar that contains the Location bar
    and the buttons used to navigate Web sites.</li>
  <li><strong>Bookmarks Toolbar</strong>: This is the toolbar that contains your Bookmarks
    Toolbar Folder bookmarks.</li>

</ul>
</div>

<h2 id="how_do_i_customize_the_toolbars">How Do I Customize the Toolbars?</h2>

<div>
There are two basic methods of customizing the toolbars in &brandShortName;:
<ul>
<li><a href="#adding_removing_toolbars">Adding/Removing Toolbars</a></li>
<li><a href="#rearranging_toolbar_items">Rearranging Items on the Toolbars</a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h3 id="adding_removing_toolbars">Adding/Removing Toolbars</h3>

<div>
You can take away certain toolbars if you do not wish to keep them on your screen.
  Currently, these toolbars can be removed:
<ul>
  <li>Navigation Toolbar</li>
  <li>Bookmarks Toolbar</li>
</ul>
</div>
<p>You cannot currently remove the Menu Bar because you cannot move the menu items (File,
  Edit, Help, etc.) to a different toolbar, and they must stay on the screen at all times.</p>

<p>To remove a toolbar, look in the View menu on your Menu Bar.  Select <span
  class="menuPath">View &gt; Toolbars</span>.  You should see a few menu items.  The top
  ones (above the separator) are the toolbars you may show.  Toolbars currently shown are
  checked, and toolbars currently hidden are not checked.  To show or hide a toolbar, simply
  click its menu item. The toolbar will now be shown or hidden based on your choice.</p>

<p>To add a toolbar, select <span class="menuPath">View &gt; Toolbars &gt; Customize</span>.
  Click on <em>Add New Toolbar</em> (in the bottom of the dialog). This should give you a
  dialog to enter a name.  Enter a name, click <em>OK</em>, and then click <em>Done</em>.
  Now select the <span class="menuPath">View &gt; Toolbars</span> menu, and you should see
  your new toolbar listed. Follow the procedures in the previous section to show or hide it.</p>

<h3 id="rearranging_toolbar_items">Rearranging Toolbar Items</h3>

<p>To rearrange the items (icons, buttons, text boxes, etc.) on your toolbar, right-click on any
  part of the toolbar that is not a text box.  This will bring up the toolbar customization dialog.</p>

<p>Drag and drop any items you want to and from the toolbars (excluding the menu items).  You can
  also rearrange icons already on the toolbars by dragging and dropping them wherever you wish.
  When the toolbars and items are arranged the way you want them, click <em>Done</em>.</p>

<h3 id="special_toolbar_items">Special Toolbar Items</h3>

<div>
There are a few special items that are available to you when customizing the toolbar.
  They are as follows:

<ul>
  <li><strong>Separators:</strong> These allow you to separate items on the toolbars with a
    small vertical line.</li>
  <li><strong>Spacers:</strong> These allow you to separate items on the toolbars with a
    fixed-size space, usually around 20 pixels on most themes.</li>
  <li><strong>Flexible spacers:</strong> Spacers allow you to separate items on the
    toolbars with a space.  These spacers automatically resize to fill all of the empty
    space on the toolbar.  These are good for positioning items on the right of a
    toolbar.</li>

</ul>
</div>

<h2 id="themes">Themes</h2>

<p>Themes are small files that are installed in &brandShortName; that change the way &brandShortName;
looks.  Themes are not allowed to modify the actions or functionality of &brandShortName;.</p>

<h3 id="getting_installing_themes">Getting and installing themes</h3>

<p>You can download and install many themes from
  <a href="http://texturizer.net/firefox/themes/">&brandShortName; Help</a> and <a
  href="http://themes.mozdev.org/phoenix">themes.mozdev.org</a>. Internet searches will find
  many other themes as well.</p>

<p>Usually when you click on a link to install a theme, &brandShortName; displays a dialog
  asking you for permission to install the theme.  You have the option of allowing download
  and installation or cancelling process.  After a successful installation, you have the
  option of automatically enabling the new theme.</p>

<p>If a Save File dialog box is displayed while installing a &brandShortName; theme, simply
  save the theme file to a place of your choosing: to install the theme, go to <a
  href="http://texturizer.net/firefox/themes/">&brandShortName; Help</a>.  Scroll to the Install
  Local Theme form and browse to select the downloaded theme.  When the theme has been selected
  click <em>Install Theme</em>.  The theme will now be usable as detailed above.</p>


<h3 id="uninstalling_themes">Uninstalling themes</h3>

<p>To uninstall a theme, select <span class="menuPath">Tools &gt; Options</span>.  Click
  on the <em>Themes</em> tab to see a list of your installed themes. Click <em>Uninstall
  Firebird Theme</em> to uninstall the theme. <em>Note: the default &brandShortName; theme
  cannot be uninstalled.</em></p>


<h3 id="changing_themes">Changing Themes</h3>

<p>To switch between your installed themes, select <span class="menuPath">Tools &gt; Options</span>.
  Click on the <em>Themes</em> tab in the new dialog box.  You should see a list of your installed
  themes. Select a theme and click <em>OK</em>.
</p>

<h2 id="extensions">Extensions</h2>

<p>Extensions are small add-ons to &brandShortName; that change existing browser
  functionality or add new functionality.</p>

<h3 id="getting_installing_extensions">Getting and Installing Extensions</h3>

<p>Installing an extension involves a very similar process to installing themes.
  Extensions can be found at <a href="http://texturizer.net/firefox/extensions/">
  &brandShortName; Help</a>.</p>

<h3 id="uninstalling_extensions">Uninstalling Extensions</h3>

<p>The functionality for uninstalling extensions is not yet present in &brandShortName;, but it will
  be in &brandShortName; 1.0. However, you can currently disable extensions and reverse the effects
  of their installation.</p>

<h3 id="disabling_extensions">Disabling Extensions</h3>

<p>To disable an extension in &brandShortName;, select <span class="menuPath">Tools &gt; Options</span>.
  Next click the <em>Extensions</em> tab.  Select the extension that you wish to disable, and then
  click the <em>Disable</em> button.</p>

<h3 id="manually_removing_extensions">Manually removing extensions</h3>

<p><strong>*For advanced users</strong><br/>
  You have to close &brandShortName; to manually remove an extension, so it would be a good idea
  to <a href="#" onclick="window.print();">print this page now</a>.<br/><br/>
  To manually uninstall an extension:</p>
<ol>
<li>Close &brandShortName; completely.</li>
<li>Go to the directory that the extension was installed in (Usually %FBinstallDir%/chrome)</li>
<li>Delete the folder or .jar file with the same name as the extension.</li>

<li>Open installed-chrome.txt in a text-editor.</li>
<li>Remove all the lines with your extension's name in them</li>
<li>Save the file</li>
<li>Delete the folder entitled "overlayinfo".</li>
</ol>

<p>If all went well, &brandShortName; should open. If &brandShortName; does not start, reinstall
  &brandShortName; after deleting the directory where &brandShortName; is installed.  &brandShortName;
  will still use the same profile, so you won't lose settings.</p>

<div class="contentsBox"><em>16 September 2003</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; 2003 Contributors to the Firebird Help Project.</p>

</body>

</html>
