<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
    <!ENTITY % platformDTD SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/help/platformStrings.dtd" >
    %platformDTD;
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
	<title>For Internet Explorer Users</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>
<h1>For Internet Explorer Users</h1>

<p>If you've been using Microsoft&reg; Internet Explorer, you'll find that
  it's easy to begin using &brandFullName;.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This information applies to &brandFullName; for Windows and
  Mac OS.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#firebird_and_internet_explorer_terminology_differences">
      Terminology Differences</a></li>
    <li><a href="#about_your_ie_settings">About Your IE Favorites and Settings</a></li>
    <li><a href="#firebirds_features">&brandShortName;'s Features</a></li>
    <li><a href="#keyboard_shortcuts">Keyboard Shortcuts</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="firebird_and_internet_explorer_terminology_differences">Terminology
  Differences</h2>

<table width="95%" border="1">
 <thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Internet Explorer</th>
    <th>&brandShortName;</th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
  <tr class="noMac">
    <td>Internet Options</td>
    <td>&pref.pluralCaps;</td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="noMac">
    <td>Temporary Internet Files</td>
    <td>Cache</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Favorites</td>
    <td>Bookmarks</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Address Bar</td>
    <td>Location Bar</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Refresh</td>
    <td>Reload</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><span class="noMac">Links Bar</span><span class="mac">Favorites Bar</span></td>
    <td>Bookmarks Toolbar</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><span class="noMac">Copy Shortcut</span><span class="mac">Copy Link to Clipboard</span></td>
    <td>Copy Link Location</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><span class="noMac">Save Target As</span><span class="mac">Download Link to Disk</span></td>
    <td>Save Link As</td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>

<h2 id="about_your_ie_settings">About Your IE Favorites and Settings</h2>

<p>When you first install &brandShortName;, it will import your existing
  Internet Explorer settings, including your Favorites, cookies, stored
  passwords, and a variety of other data.  This saves you time customizing
  &brandShortName; to fit your needs.</p>

<h2 id="firebirds_features">&brandShortName;'s Features</h2>
<ul>
  <li><strong>Tabbed Browsing</strong>: Instead of opening a separate browser
    window for each site you want to visit, you can open multiple sites within
    the same window and tab between them. You can also set a group of tabs as
    your home page.  For more information see <a
    href="tabbed_browsing.xhtml">Tabbed Browsing</a>.</li>
  <li><strong>Pop-up Window Controls</strong>: Lets you allow or suppress both
    popup and popunder windows.</li>
  <li><strong>Cookie Manager</strong>: Lets you change what &brandShortName; will
    do when accepting cookies.</li>
  <li><strong>Download Manager</strong>: Organizes your downloads by storing
    them in a single window to minimize clutter.  You have full access to
    download statistics without using unnecessary multiple windows for each
    download.</li>
  <li><strong>Image Manager</strong>: Enables you to disable images from certain
    web sites or disable them altogether. This is useful if you wish to decrease
    the amount of time it takes for web sites to load.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="keyboard_shortcuts">Keyboard Shortcuts</h2>
<p>You will notice that Microsoft Internet Explorer and &brandShortName; share many of
  the same shortcut keys. For a full list of shortcut keys, see the
  <a href="shortcuts.xhtml">List of &brandShortName; Keyboard Shortcuts</a>.</p>

<div class="contentsBox"><em>10 December 2004</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; &copyright.years; Contributors to the Mozilla Help Viewer Project.</p>

</body>
</html>
