<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
    <!ENTITY % platformDTD SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/help/platformStrings.dtd" >
    %platformDTD;
]>
<!--
Contributors:
  David Tenser <tenser@comhem.se> (original author)
  Steffen Wilberg <steffen.wilberg@web.de>
  Ryan Flint <rflint@dslr.net>
  Jeff Walden <jwalden+code@mit.edu>
-->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>&brandFullName; Options</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>

<h1>&brandFullName; &pref.pluralCaps;</h1>
<p>This document explains all of the &pref.plural; available in the
  &pref.pluralCaps; window of &brandFullName;.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#main_options">Main &pref.pluralCaps;</a></li>
    <li><a href="#tabs_options">Tabs &pref.pluralCaps;</a></li>
    <li><a href="#content_options">Content &pref.pluralCaps;</a></li>
    <li><a href="#feeds_options">Feeds &pref.pluralCaps;</a></li>
    <li><a href="#privacy_options">Privacy &pref.pluralCaps;</a></li>
    <li><a href="#security_options">Security &pref.pluralCaps;</a></li>
    <li><a href="#advanced_options">Advanced &pref.pluralCaps;</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="main_options">Main &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>

  <h3 id="startup">Startup</h3>
  <p>When you open &brandShortName;, by default your <a
    href="glossary.xhtml#home_page">home page</a> is displayed.  Your home page
    might be a commonly-visited web site, a search engine, or perhaps your email
    account, but the choice is up to you.  You can change your home page or
    choose to display a different page or set of pages on startup in this
    section.</p>
    
  <p><em>When &brandShortName; starts</em><br/>
    By default, when &brandShortName; starts it opens your home page (listed in
    the textbox immediately below), which corresponds to the <em>Show my home
    page</em> option.  Alternately, you can choose to display a blank page on
    startup (perhaps to eliminate the time required to load that page from the
    Internet) by selecting the <em>Show a blank page</em> option.</p>

  <p>As a final alternative, you can have &brandShortName; reopen the windows and
    tabs you had open the last time you ran &brandShortName;, effectively
    restoring you to where you were when you last stopped browsing the Internet.
    This can be a handy way of saving what you were doing when you close
    &brandShortName;, perhaps to install an operating system update.  You can
    choose this option by selecting <em>Show my windows and tabs from last
    time</em>.</p>

  <p><em>Home Page</em><br/>
    If you've set &brandShortName; to show your home page when you start
    &brandShortName;, you specify your home page by typing it here.  You can
    also click any of the buttons below the textbox to choose a special home
    page:</p>

  <ul>
    <li><em>Use Current Page</em> sets the currently-displayed page (or pages,
      if you have multiple tabs open) as your home page</li>
    <li><em>Use Bookmark</em> sets the selected bookmark (or if you select a
      folder, the set of bookmarks in that folder) as your home page</li>
    <li><em>Restore to Default</em> resets your home page to the default home
      page</li>
  </ul>

  <h3 id="downloads">Downloads</h3>
  <p>This section contains &pref.plural; determining how &brandShortName;
    downloads files.</p>
    
  <p><em>Show the Downloads window when downloading a file</em><br/>
    With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will open the <a
    href="download_manager.xhtml">Downloads window</a> when you start
    downloading a file.</p>
    
  <p><em>Close it when all downloads are finished</em><br/>
    Select this &pref.singular; to have &brandShortName; close the Downloads
    window when all downloads currently in progress finish.</p>
      
  <p><em id="download_folder">Save files to</em><br/>
    By default downloaded files are automatically saved to the Desktop,
    eliminating the hassle of specifying a download location for every file you
    download.  You can choose a different folder by clicking the <em><span
    class="noMac">Browse...</span><span class="mac">Choose...</span></em>
    button.</p>
      
  <p><em>Always ask me where to save files</em><br/>
    With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will ask you where
    you would like to save every downloaded file (instead of using the default
    location specified above).</p>
  
  <h3 id="system_defaults">System Defaults</h3>
  <p><em>Always check to see if &brandShortName; is the default browser on
    startup</em><br/>
    Select this option if you want &brandShortName; to check whether it is the
    default browser at startup.  This will ensure &brandShortName; is used
    whenever an application tries to display a web page.  You can also click the
    <em>Check Now</em> button to do a check right now.</p>


<h2 id="tabs_options">Tabs &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>
<p><em>New pages should be opened in:</em><br/>
  This &pref.singular; controls whether links from other applications or from
  web pages which request to open them in new windows are opened in <em>a new
  window</em> or <em>a new tab</em> in the most recent window.</p>

<p><strong>Note:</strong> If you have chosen to open pages in new tabs,
  &brandShortName; will ignore this &pref.singular; and will open a new window
  from a link if the page author specified that the new window should have a
  specific size, because some pages can only be displayed correctly at a
  specific size.</p>
  
<p><em>Warn me when closing multiple tabs</em><br/>
  When you close a window with multiple tabs, &brandShortName; will ask you
  to confirm your choice. This prevents you from accidentally closing the
  whole window when you intended to only close the current tab. Uncheck this
  &pref.singular; to disable this warning and have &brandShortName;
  automatically close the window.</p>

<p><em>Warn me when opening multiple tabs might slow down
  &brandShortName;</em><br/>
  When you open a large number of tabs at once, &brandShortName; will ask you
  to confirm your choice. This prevents you from accidentally slowing down
  your system while the pages are loading.  Uncheck this &pref.singular; to
  disable this warning.</p>
  
<p><em>Always show the tab bar</em><br/>
  If you're only viewing one web page in a &brandShortName; window, the tab
  bar is not normally shown. Check this &pref.singular; to always show the tab
  bar, including when only the &brandShortName; window contains only one
  page.</p>

<p><em>When I open a link in a new tab, switch to it immediately</em><br/>
  When you middle-click on a Web link (or hold down &accelKey; while clicking
  with the left mouse button), the page will be opened in a new tab. That page
  will not be displayed and will load in a background tab. Check this
  &pref.singular; to load and display the page in a new foreground tab
  instead.</p>


<h2 id="content_options">Content &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>
<p><em>Block Pop-up Windows</em><br/>
  By default, &brandShortName; blocks annoying pop-up windows on web sites.
  Unchecking this &pref.singular; will disable pop-up blocking.</p>

<p>Some web sites make legitimate use of pop-up windows. Therefore, you can
  allow these sites to open pop-ups anyway. To do so, click
  <em>Exceptions...</em>, enter the site name, and click <em>Allow</em>.  To
  remove a web site from the list, select it and then click <em>Remove
  Site</em>. To clear the list completely, click <em>Remove All Sites</em>.</p>

<p><em>Load images automatically</em><br/>
  &brandShortName; displays images in web pages by default.  Uncheck this
  &pref.singular; to disable images in web pages.</p>

<p>If you enable loading images automatically, the <em>Exceptions...</em>
  button lets you select sites from which images will not automatically load.
  The <em>Exceptions...</em> button lets you specify web sites that you wish
  to load (or not load) regardless of the setting of this preference. In the
  exceptions list, enter the site from which you want to allow or block images
  and click <em>Allow</em> to allow images, or click <em>Block</em> to block
  the images.</p>
  
<p><em>Enable JavaScript</em><br/>
  JavaScript is a scripting language commonly used to make web pages
  interactive.  However, it also makes certain annoying behaviors much easier to
  perform.  To disable JavaScript, uncheck this &pref.singular;.  However, note
  that disabling JavaScript may cause some sites to not work properly.  For more
  fine-grained control over what JavaScript can and cannot do, click
  <em>Advanced...</em>.</p>
    
  <h4 id="advanced_javascript">Advanced JavaScript Settings</h4>
  <dl>
    <dt>Move or resize existing windows</dt>
    <dd>Uncheck this &pref.singular; to disable moving and resizing windows
      using scripts.</dd>

    <dt>Raise or lower windows</dt>
    <dd>Uncheck this &pref.singular; to make sure scripts cannot raise (bring
      to the front) or lower (send to the back) windows.</dd>

    <dt>Disable or replace context menus</dt>
    <dd>Uncheck this &pref.singular; to prevent web pages from disabling or
      changing the &brandShortName; context menu.</dd>

    <dt>Hide the status bar</dt>
    <dd>Uncheck this &pref.singular; to force the status bar to be displayed in
      pop-up windows.</dd>

    <dt>Change status bar text</dt>
    <dd>Uncheck this &pref.singular; to disable changes to status bar text (such
      as displaying scrolling text messages or preventing the link address from
      being displayed while the mouse is over a link).</dd>
  </dl>
    
  <p><em>Enable Java</em><br/>
    Java is a popular programming language for the Web.  A single Java program
    can run on many different kinds of computers, thus avoiding the need for
    programmers to create a separate version of a program for each kind of
    computer.  Uncheck this &pref.singular; to disable Java applets in
    &brandShortName;.  Note that in order for Java applets to work, you must
    install the Java plugin.</p>

  <h3 id="fonts_and_colors">Fonts &amp; Colors</h3>
  <p><em>Default font</em> and <em>Size</em><br/>
    Web pages are usually displayed in the font and size specified here.
    However, web pages can override these choices unless you specify otherwise
    in the Fonts dialog.  Click the <em>Advanced...</em> button to access the
    Fonts dialog and to change this and other fonts &pref.plural;.</p>

    <h4 id="fonts_dialog">Fonts Dialog</h4>
    <ol>
      <li>From the <em>Fonts for</em> drop-down list, choose a language
        group/script.  For instance, to set default fonts for the West
        European languages/scripts (Latin), choose <em>Western</em>. For a
        language/script not in the list, choose <em>Other Languages</em>.</li>
      <li>Select whether proportional text should be serif (like &quot;Times
        New Roman&quot;) or sans-serif (like &quot;Arial&quot;). Then specify
        the font size you want for proportional text.</li>
      <li>Specify the font to use for Serif, Sans-serif and Monospace fonts.
        You can also change the size for <code>Monospace fonts</code>.</li>
    </ol>

    <p>You can also set the minimum web page font size.  This is useful to
      prevent sites from use overly small fonts that are barely readable.</p>

    <p><em>Allow pages to choose their own fonts, instead of my selections
      above</em><br/>
      By default &brandShortName; uses the fonts specified by the web page
      author. Disabling this &pref.singular; will force all sites to use your
      default fonts instead.</p>

    <p><em>Character Encoding</em><br/>
      The character encoding selected here will be used to display pages that
      do not specify which encoding to use.</p>

    <h4 id="colors_dialog">Colors Dialog</h4>
    <p><strong>Text and Background</strong><br/>
      Here you can change the default text and background color to be used on
      web pages that haven't specified that information. Click on the color
      samples to select colors.</p>

    <p><em>Use system colors</em><br/>
      Check this &pref.singular; to use the colors defined in your operating
      system settings instead of the colors specified above.</p>

    <p><strong>Link Colors</strong><br/>
      Here you can change the default colors for Web links. Click on the color
      samples to select colors.</p>

    <p><em>Underline links</em><br/>
      By default, links are underlined on web pages. Uncheck this &pref.singular;
      to disable this. Note that many sites specify their own styling rules
      and this &pref.singular; has no effect on those sites.</p>

    <p><em>Allow pages to choose their own colors, instead of my selections
      above</em><br/>
      By default, &brandShortName; uses the colors specified by the web page
      author. Disabling this &pref.singular; will force all sites to use your
      default colors instead.</p>

  <h3 id="file_types">File Types</h3>
  <p>The Download Actions dialog, which can be opened by clicking the
    <em>Manage...</em> button, contains file types that you have downloaded.
    You can choose what &brandShortName; should do when clicking on a specific
    file type by selecting the file type you want to modify and clicking the
    <em>Change Action...</em> button.</p>

  <p>This will display the Download Actions dialog, where you can choose to have
    the file type opened by the default application, opened by a particular
    application, saved to disk, or shown with an installed plugin.  For example,
    if you view lots of media files on web pages, you might want to specify that
    &brandShortName; always open media files in your media player instead of
    asking where you want each media file to be saved.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><em>Open them with the default application:</em><br/>
      Select this &pref.singular; to open this file type in the default
      application for that file type (determined by the operating system).</li>
    <li><em>Open them with this application:</em><br/>
      Select this &pref.singular; to specify another application that should
      handle this file type. You will see a dialog asking you to specify the
      application to use.</li>
    <li><em>Save them on my computer:</em><br/>
      This &pref.singular; will save the files to disk (automatically if you
      have selected the <em>Save files to</em> &pref.singular; in the
      <em>Main</em> panel).</li>
    <li><em>Use this Plugin:</em><br/>
      Select this &pref.singular; to let a plugin handle this file type.</li>
  </ul>


<h2 id="feeds_options">Feeds &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>
<p>Feeds are specially formatted documents which summarize the content of web
  sites.  For example, a feed might summarize the latest news headlines from a
  news site or the latest posts on a blog.  You can view the content of feeds in
  &brandShortName;, create Live Bookmarks for them, or add them to a feed reader
  on your computer or on the Web.  The &pref.plural; in this pane determine what
  &brandShortName; does when you view a feed.</p>

<p><em>Show me a preview and ask me which Feed Reader to use</em><br/>
  When you view a feed within &brandShortName;, you will be shown a preview of
  its contents. With this &pref.singular; selected, you are always given a
  choice of what you would like to use to subscribe to the feed at the top of
  the preview page.</p>
    
<p><em>Subscribe to the feed using</em><br/>
  Instead of displaying a preview of the feed when you view one, you can have
  the feed be opened directly in a feed reader by selecting a reader from the
  list of available readers.  You can choose to use an application on your
  computer to subscribe to feeds by clicking the <em>Choose Application...</em>
  button and finding the application on your computer.  Alternately, you can
  choose to automatically subscribe to feeds by saving them as Live Bookmarks.
  To choose a subscription method, simply select it from the list.</p>


<h2 id="privacy_options">Privacy &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>

  <h3 id="privacy_history">History</h3>
  <p><em>Remember visited pages for the last ... days</em><br/>
    Here you can specify how long you want &brandShortName; to remember what
    pages you have visited. The default is 9 days.</p>
      
  <p><em>Remember what I enter in forms and the search bar</em><br/>
    When you enter information in web forms or the search bar in
    &brandShortName;, that information is saved so that &brandShortName; can
    give suggestions when you enter information in forms in the future. To stop
    this behavior, uncheck this &pref.singular;.</p>
      
  <p><em>Remember what I've downloaded</em><br/>
    This &pref.singular; controls whether or not past downloads show up in the
    Downloads window.  The Downloads window (accessible from <span
    class="menuPath">Tools</span> or by pressing <span
    class="noUnix">&accelKey;+<kbd>J</kbd></span><span
    class="unix">&accelKey;+<kbd>Y</kbd></span>) displays a list of your recent
    downloads.  Downloads &pref.plural; are available in the <a
    href="#main_options"><em>Main</em></a> panel.</p>

  <h3 id="privacy_cookies">Cookies</h3>
  <p>A cookie is a file created by a web site that stores information on your
    computer, such as site-specific preferences when visiting that site.</p>

  <p><em>Accept cookies from sites</em><br/>
    By default cookies are enabled. Uncheck this &pref.singular; to disable the
    use of cookies. Note that some sites may not work properly when cookies are
    disabled.</p>
      
  <p><em>Keep until:</em></p>

  <ul>
    <li><em>they expire</em><br/>
      This is the default &pref.singular;. When set, this allows websites to
      specify how long a cookie will be stored by &brandShortName;. This makes
      it possible for a site to remember your preferences and login information
      across browser sessions.</li>
    <li><em>I close &brandShortName;</em><br/>
      With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will remove all
      stored cookies when closed.</li>
    <li><em>ask me every time</em><br/>
      With this &pref.singular; enabled, &brandShortName; will ask you how long
      you would like to keep a cookie (or refuse it entirely) every time a web
      site attempts to set one.</li>
  </ul>

  <p>To control which sites may or may not set cookies, click the
    <em>Exceptions...</em> button.</p>
      
  <p>To display the Cookie Manager click <em>Show Cookies...</em>.</p>

  <p>Learn more about cookies, the individual &pref.plural;, and how you can
    gain control over what sites are allowed to store cookies on your computer
    by reading about <a href="cookies.xhtml">Managing Cookies</a>.</p>
      
  <h3 id="private_data">Private Data</h3>
  <p><em>Always clear my private data when I close &brandShortName;</em><br/>
    You can choose to have &brandShortName; clear your private data when you
    close it. To configure what data is cleared, click the <em>Settings...</em>
    button.</p>
    
  <p><em>Ask me before clearing private data</em><br/>
    With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will ask you before
    before automatically clearing the data specified by clicking
    <em>Settings...</em>.</p>
  
  <p>If you wish to clear your private data right now, you can click the
    <em>Clear Now...</em> button to do so.  To clear your private data from
    outside the preferences dialog, either press &accelKey;+&shiftKey;+<kbd>Del</kbd>
    or select <span class="menuPath">Tools &gt; Clear Private Data...</span>.</p>


<h2 id="security_options">Security &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>
<p><em>Warn me when sites try to install add-ons</em><br/>
  &brandShortName; will always ask you to confirm installations of add-ons.
  To prevent unrequested installation prompts which may lead to accidental
  installations, &brandShortName; warns you when a web site tries to install
  an add-on and blocks the installation prompt.  To allow installations from
  a specific site, click <em>Exceptions...</em>, enter the site name, and click
  <em>Allow</em>.  Uncheck this &pref.singular; to disable the warning for all
  sites.</p>
    
<p><em>Tell me if the site I'm visiting is a suspected forgery</em><br/>
  Check this &pref.singular; if you want &brandShortName; to actively check
  whether the site you are visiting may be an attempt to mislead you into
  providing personal information (this is often referred to as <em>phishing</em>).</p>

<p><em>Check using a downloaded list of suspected sites</em><br/>
  With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will check the current
  site against a frequently updated list stored on your computer.  No data about
  the sites you visit is transferred to third-party anti-phishing providers
  during normal browsing.  Since phishing techniques and sites evolve quickly,
  this mode of protection may not be as effective as having an anti-phishing
  provider check every site you visit.</p>

<p><em>Check by asking ... about each site I visit</em><br/>
  With this &pref.singular; selected, &brandShortName; will send the address of
  the current page over an encrypted connection to the selected third-party
  anti-phishing provider in order to verify its identity. This method offers the
  greatest protection, but information such as your IP address and browser
  version may be transfered and stored by the selected provider. You will be
  prompted to review and agree to the selected data provider's privacy policy
  after selecting this &pref.singular;.</p>
      
  <h3 id="security_passwords">Passwords</h3>
  <p><em>Remember passwords for sites</em><br/>
    &brandShortName; can securely save passwords you enter in web forms to
    make it easier to log on to web sites.  Clear this checkbox to prevent
    &brandShortName; from remembering your passwords.</p>
    
    <p>Even with this &pref.singular; checked, however, you'll still be asked
    whether to save passwords for a site when you first visit it.  If you select
    <em>Never for This Site</em>, that site will be added to an exceptions list.
    To access that list or to remove sites from it, click the
    <em>Exceptions...</em> button.</p>

  <p id="set_change_master_password"><em>Use a master password</em><br/>
    &brandShortName; can protect sensitive information such as saved passwords
    and certificates by encrypting them using a <a
    href="glossary.xhtml#master_password">master password</a>.  If you create a
    master password, each time you start &brandShortName;, it will ask you to enter
    the password the first time it needs to access a certificate or stored
    password. You can set, change, or remove the master password by
    by checking or unchecking this &pref.singular; or by clicking the
    <em>Change Master Password...</em> button.  If a master password is already
    set, you will need to enter it in order to change or remove the master password.</p>

  <p><em>Show Passwords...</em><br/>
    You can manage saved passwords and delete individual passwords by clicking
    the <em>View Saved Passwords</em> button.</p>
  
  <h3 id="warning_messages">Warning Messages</h3>
  <p>Click the <em>Settings...</em> button to configure the security warnings
    &brandShortName; displays while you browse the web.</p>
    
    <h4>Security Warnings Dialog</h4>
    <!--XXX massive suck!  do these provide *any* value whatsoever? -->
    <dl>
      <dt>I am about to view an encrypted page</dt>
      <dd>When this &pref.singular; is enabled, &brandShortName; will notify you
        every time you are about to view an encrypted page.</dd>

      <dt>I am about to view a page that uses low-grade encryption</dt>
      <dd>With this &pref.singular; enabled, &brandShortName; will warn you when
        you visit a page which uses low-grade encryption.</dd>

      <dt>I leave an encrypted page for one that isn't encrypted</dt>
      <dd>With this &pref.singular; enabled, &brandShortName; will warn you
        every time you move from an encrypted page to an unencrypted page either
        by selecting a link on the page, selecting a bookmark or typing a new
        address into the location bar.</dd>

      <dt>I submit information that's not encrypted</dt>
      <dd>When this &pref.singular; is enabled, &brandShortName; will warn you
        when you submit data via a form that's not encrypted.</dd>
  
      <dt>I'm about to view an encrypted page that contains some unencrypted
        information</dt>
      <dd>With this &pref.singular; enabled, &brandShortName; will warn you when
        the page you're viewing contains a mixture of encrypted and
        unencrypted content. If an encrypted page contains unencrypted data,
        you should verify the identity of the page you're viewing prior to
        entering sensitive data.</dd>
    </dl>


<h2 id="advanced_options">Advanced &pref.pluralCaps;</h2>
<p>The advanced panel contains many &pref.plural; that are less likely to be
  used by most people but are useful and sometimes critical &pref.plural; for
  some people.</p>

  <h3 id="advanced_general">General tab</h3>
    <h4 id="accessibility">Accessibility</h4>
    <p><em>Always use the cursor keys to navigate within pages</em><br/>
      When this &pref.singular; is enabled, &brandShortName; will display a
      movable cursor in web pages, allowing you to select text with the
      keyboard.  You can toggle this mode by pressing <kbd>F7</kbd>.</p>

    <p><em>Search for text when I start typing</em><br/>
      When this &pref.singular; is enabled, &brandShortName; will find within
      the current web page what you type as you type it. While you are finding
      typed text in the page, the Find Toolbar will automatically display at the
      bottom of the window to show information about what you've found.</p>

    <h4 id="browsing">Browsing</h4>
    <p><em>Use autoscrolling</em><br/>
      Autoscrolling is a useful feature which allows you to scroll the page by
      clicking the middle mouse button (usually the scroll wheel) and moving the
      mouse up or down. Some people find this annoying, so autoscrolling can be
      disabled with this &pref.singular;.</p>

    <p><em>Use smooth scrolling</em><br/>
      Smooth scrolling can be very useful if you read a lot of long pages.
      Normally, when you press <kbd>Page Down</kbd>, the view jumps directly
      down one page. With smooth scrolling, it slides down smoothly, so you can
      see how much it scrolls. This makes it easier to resume reading from where
      you were before.</p>
        
    <p><em>Check my spelling as I type</em><br/>
      When this preference is enabled, &brandShortName; will check your spelling
      and offer possible corrections as you type in web forms.  Note that you
      may need to download a dictionary; to do so, <span
      class="noMac">right-click</span><span class="mac">press &ctrlKey; and
      click</span> on any text field, enable spellchecking if necessary, and
      then use the provided <span class="menuPath">Languages</span> menu to
      download a dictionary.</p>

    <h4 id="languages">Languages</h4>
    <p>Some web pages are offered in more than one language. Click the
      <em>Choose...</em> button to specify your preferred language or
      languages.</p>

    <p><strong>Languages Dialog</strong><br/>
      To add a language, click <em>Select a language to add...</em>, choose the
      language, and click the <em>Add</em> button.  Remove a language by
      selecting it in the list of active languages and clicking the
      <em>Remove</em> button.  You can also reorder languages using the <em>Move
      Up</em> and <em>Move Down</em> buttons to determine the most preferred one
      in case a page is provided in multiple languages .</p>

  <h3 id="advanced_network">Network tab</h3>

    <h4 id="connection_settings">Connection</h4>
    <p>Your organization or Internet service provider may offer or require you
      to use a proxy.  A proxy acts as an intermediary between your computer and
      the Internet.  It intercepts all requests to the Internet to see if it can
      fulfill the request using its cache.  Proxies are used to improve
      performance, filter requests, and hide your computer from the Internet to
      improve security.  Proxies are often part of corporate firewalls.</p>

    <h4>Connection Settings Dialog</h4>
    <dl>
      <dt>Direct connection to the Internet</dt>
      <dd>This is the default &pref.singular;. Choose this if you don't want
        to use a proxy.</dd>

      <dt>Auto-detect proxy settings for this network</dt>
      <dd>Choose this if you want &brandShortName; to automatically detect the
        proxy settings for your network.</dd>

      <dt>Manual proxy configuration</dt>
      <dd>Choose this if you don't have a proxy location (URL). Ask your
        system administrator for the names and port numbers of the servers
        running proxy software for each network service and enter the
        information in the appropriate fields.</dd>

      <dt>Automatic proxy configuration URL</dt>
      <dd>If your workplace has a proxy configuration file, ask the system
        administrator for its URL and enter it here. Click <em>Reload</em> to
        load the settings.</dd>
    </dl>
    
    <h4 id="advanced_cache">Cache</h4>
    <p>Pages you view are normally stored in a special cache folder for quicker
      viewing the next time you visit the same page.  You can specify the amount
      of disk space the cache can use here.  You can also immediately clear
      the contents of the cache.</p>
    
    <p><em>Use up to ... MB of space for the cache</em><br/>
      Allows you to specify the maximum size, in megabytes, of the cache on
      your computer.</p>
    
    <p><em>Clear Now</em><br/>
      Immediately clears the current contents of the cache, freeing the disk
      space used by the cache.</p>
  
  <h3 id="advanced_update">Update tab</h3>
    <p>&brandShortName; can check whether updates to installed add-ons or to
      &brandShortName; itself are available.</p>

    <p><em>Automatically check for updates to:</em><br/>
      By default &brandShortName; automatically checks for updates to itself, to
      add-ons, and to search engines so you'll always know you have the most
      up-to-date version. You can change this behavior by changing the
      appropriate checkboxes here.</p>

    <p><em>When updates to &brandShortName; are found,</em></p>

    <dl>
      <dt>Ask me what I want to do</dt>
      <dd>Updates to &brandShortName; are installed automatically by default.
        Select this &pref.singular; to manually control how and when updates are
        installed.</dd>
      <dt>Automatically download and install the update</dt>
      <dd>When this &pref.singular; is selected, &brandShortName; updates will
        be automatically downloaded and will be installed the next time
        &brandShortName; is restarted.  The <em>Warn me if this will disable any
        of my add-ons</em> &pref.singular; determines whether you will be warned
        before the installation of an update which would require an incompatible
        add-on to be disabled because no newer, compatible version exists.  The
        warning will allow you to postpone installation of the update, though at
        the expense of improvements included in it.<br/><br/>
        If all extensions and themes are compatible or can be updated to be
        compatible, the &brandShortName; update will be installed.  Upon restart
        you will be asked to install any needed add-on updates so that you can
        continue to use them.</dd>
    </dl>

    <p><em>Show Update History</em><br/>
      &brandShortName; automatically records the updates you have installed.
      You can view information about these updates by clicking this button.</p>

    <p><strong>Note:</strong>  You must be running &brandShortName; as
      <span class="win">an administrator</span><span class="noWin">root</span>
      or as the user who originally installed &brandShortName;
      to install &brandShortName; updates.</p>

  <h3 id="advanced_encryption">Encryption tab</h3>

    <h4 id="protocols">Protocols</h4>
    <p><em>Use SSL 3.0</em><br/>
      Specifies whether you want to send and receive secured information through
      SSL3 (Secure Sockets Layer, Level 3), a standard protocol for
      communicating securely with web sites.  Disabling it will prevent you from
      visiting some sites.</p>

    <p><em>Use TLS 1.0</em><br/>
      Specifies whether you want to send and receive secured information through
      TLS (Transport Layer Security), a security standard similar to SSL3
      (Secure Sockets Layer).  Disabling it will prevent you from visiting some
      sites.</p>

    <h4 id="certificates">Certificates</h4>
    <p>Certificates help perform encryption and decryption of connections to
      <a href="glossary.xhtml#secure_site">secure sites</a>.</p>

    <p><em>When a web site requires a certificate:</em><br/>
      When a web site requests a secure connection, &brandShortName; will by
      default automatically use an appropriate certificate.  If you wish to
      manually choose a certificate (for example, if you wish to use a certain
      type of encryption instead of what is automatically selected), select the
      &pref.singular; <em>Ask me every time</em> and you'll be in complete
      control of what certificates you use while browsing.</p>

    <p><em>View Certificates</em><br/>
      Click this button to view stored certificates, import new certificates,
      and back up or delete old certificates in &brandShortName;.</p>

    <p><em>Revocation Lists</em><br/>
      &brandShortName; can use Certificate Revocation Lists (also known as
      CRLs) to ensure that your certificates are always valid.  Click the
      <em>Revocation Lists</em> button to manage the CRLs installed on your
      computer.</p>

    <p><em>Verification</em><br/>
      &brandShortName; verify the validity of your certificates using OCSP
      (Online Certificate Status Protocol) every time they are viewed or used.
      &brandShortName; does not use OCSP by default, but if you want to enable
      it, you can do so here.  You will most likely only need to change this if
      your Internet environment requires it.</p>

    <p><em>Security Devices</em><br/>
      Security devices can encrypt and decrypt connections and store
      certificates and passwords.  If you need to use a security device other
      than the one in &brandShortName;, click the <em>Security Devices</em>
      button.</p>

<div class="contentsBox"><em>12 September 2006</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; &copyright.years; Contributors to the Mozilla Help Viewer Project.</p>

</body>
</html>
