<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
<title>Privacy &amp; Security Preferences - Certificates</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://help/locale/content_style.css" type="text/css">

</head>

<body>
<a NAME="using_certs_settings"></a>
<a NAME="certificates:settingsIDX"></a>
<a NAME="settings:certificateIDX"></a>


<hr>
<h1>Certificate Settings</h1>

<p>This section describes how to set your certificate preferences and how to use the Certificate Manager, Device Manager, and other dialog boxes related to certificates.

<p>For step-by-step descriptions of various tasks related to certificates, see <A HREF="#using_certs_first">Using Certificates</A>.</p>

<table summary="list of headings" cellpadding=4 cellspacing=2 bgcolor="#cccccc" Width=324>
<tr>
<td class="inthissection">
<p>In this section:</p>
<p><a href="#certs_prefs_help_first">Certificate Preferences</a></p>
<p><a href="certs_help.html">Certificate Manager</a></p>
<p><a href="certs_help.html#Security_Devices">Device Manager</a></p>
<p><a href="cert_dialog_help.html">Certificate Information and Decisions</a></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p>&nbsp;</p>


<hr>
<a NAME="certs_prefs_help_first"></a>
<a NAME="preferences:certificatesIDX"></a>
<a NAME="certificates:preferencesIDX"></a>
<h1>Privacy &amp; Security Preferences - Certificates</h1>

<p>This section describes use the Certificates preferences panel. To view Certificates preferences, follow these steps:
<ol>
   <li>Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.
   <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Certificates. (If no subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand the list.) 
</ol>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a NAME="Client_Certificate_Selection"></a>
<a NAME="certificates:selecting_for_client_authenticationIDX"></a>
<h3>Client Certificate Selection</h3>

<p>Some web sites require you to identify yourself with a certificate. The option you select here determines how Navigator identifies the certificate to present among those you may have on file:
<ul>
	<LI><b>Select Automatically:</b> Click this option if you want Navigator to select a certificate without asking you. This is the default setting.
	<LI><b>Ask Every Time:</b> Click this option if you want Navigator to ask you which certificate to use each time a web site requests one. 
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a NAME="Manage_Certificates"></a>
<h3>Manage Certificates</h3>

<p>Certificates are the digital equivalent of ID cards&mdash;they help other people identify you, and they help you identify other people, web sites, and organizations.

<p>To examine or configure the certificates you have on file, click Manage Certificates.

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a NAME="Manage_Security_Devices"></a>
<h3>Manage Security Devices</h3>

<p>A security device is a hardware or software device that stores your certificates and keys. 
For example, a smart card is a security device. Your browser has its own built-in software 
security device, and you can use additional security devices, such as smart cards, at the same time. 

<p>To examine or configure your security devices, click Manage Security Devices.


</body>
</html>



