<html>
<head>
<title>Mozilla Preferences Help</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://help/locale/content_style.css" type="text/css">
<!-- <link rel="stylesheet" href="../style.css" type="text/css"> -->

</head>

<body bgcolor="white">
<a name="preferences:advancedIDX"></a><p><a NAME="top"></a> </p>

<h1>Advanced Preferences</h1>
<p>This section describes how to use the Advanced preference panel. If you are 
  not already viewing the panel, follow these steps:</p>
<p> 1. Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.<br>
  2. Click the Advanced category.</p>
<table CELLSPACING=2 CELLPADDING=4 WIDTH="324" BGCOLOR="#CCCCCC" >
<tr>
<td class="inthissection">
<p>In this section:
      <p><a href="#Advanced">Advanced</a>
      <p><a href="#Scripts">Scripts and Windows </a> 
      <p><a href="#Cache">Cache</a> 
      <p><a href="#Proxies">Proxies</a>
      <p><a href="#Software_Installation">Software Installation </a> 
      <p><a href="#Mouse_Wheel">Mouse Wheel </a> 
      <p><a href="#system">System</a> 
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><a NAME="Advanced"></a> </p>
<h2>Advanced Preferences - Advanced</h2>
<p>This section describes how to use the main Advanced preferences panel. If you're 
  not already viewing it, follow these steps:
<p> 1. Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.<br>
  2. Click the Advanced category.</p>
<p> The main Advanced preferences panel allows you to customize Java, FTP passwords, 
  and Quick Launch:</p>
<ul>
  
<li><b>Enable Java:</b> Select this to allow Mozilla to interpret pages containing 
    Java. Java is used on some Web page to incorporate interactive and multimedia 
    content. 
  
<li><b>Send this email address as anonymous FTP password</b>: Type an email 
    address that you want to use as your password when logging into an FTP site 
    anonymously. 
<a name="Quick_Launch:preferenceIDX"></a> 
<a name="QuickLaunchSDX"></a> 
<a name="Quick_LaunchSDX"></a> 
<a name="disable_Quick_LaunchSDX"></a> 
<a name="disable_QuickLaunchSDX"></a> 
<a name="enable_Quick_LaunchSDX"></a> <a name="enable_QuickLaunchSDX"></a> 
<a name="memorySDX"></a> 
<li><b>Enable Quick Launch</b>: Select this if you want to shorten the time 
    it takes to start Mozilla. See &quot;<a href="nav_help.html#nav_quicklaunch">Using 
    Quick Launch</a>&quot; for more information about using Quick Launch.<br>
    
<p><b>Note</b>: Quick Launch appears only on Windows-based platforms.</p>
</ul>
<p>&nbsp;</p><hr>
<a name="Scripts"></a>
<a name="preferences:JavaScriptIDX"></a> 
<a name="JavaScript:preferencesIDX"></a> 
<a name="JavaScriptSDX"></a> 
<a name="javascriptSDX"></a> 
<a name="windowsSDX"></a> 
<h2>Advanced Preferences - Scripts &amp; Windows</h2>
<p>This section describes how to use the Scripts &amp; Windows preferences panel. 
  If you're not already viewing it, follow these steps: 
<p> 1. Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.<br>
  2. Under the Advanced category, click Scripts &amp; Windows. (If no subcategories 
  are visible, double-click the category to expand the list.)</p>
<p></p>
<p>The Scripts &amp; Windows preferences panel allows you to control how JavaScript 
  is used in Netcape:</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>Enable JavaScript for</b>: Check these checkboxes to turn JavaScript 
    on: 
    <ul>
      <li><b>Navigator</b>: Toggles JavaScript on for web pages opened Navigator.</li>
      <li><b>Mail &amp; Newsgroups</b>: Toggles JavaScript on for web pages opened 
        in Mail &amp; Newsgroups.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><b>Allow webpages to:</b> Check these checkboxes to control how JavaScript 
    can be used: 
    
<ul>
      
<li><b>Open a link in a new window</b>: Allows  clicked links to be opened in a new window. Some links are configured to open in new windows instead of within the same window.</li>
<li><b>Move or resize existing windows</b>: Allows open windows to be resized or moved.</li>
<li><b>Raise or lower windows</b>: Allows windows to be placed under or on top of other windows.</li>
<li><b>Change status bar text</b>: Allows status bar text to be changed, such as in scrolling text in the status bar.</li>
<li><b>Change images</b>: Allows images to be changed or animation, such as in image rollovers (images that change when the mouse cursor is placed over them).</li>
<li><b>Create or change cookies</b>: Allows cookies to be changed or created using JavaScript.</li>
<li><b>Read cookies</b>: Allows cookies to be read using JavaScript.</li>
</ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>&nbsp;</p><hr>
<a name="preferences:cacheIDX"></a> 
<a name="cache:preferencesIDX"></a>
<a name="cacheSDX"></a> 
<a name="Cache"></a>
<h2>Advanced Preferences - Cache</h2>
<p>This section describes how to use the Cache preferences panel. If you're not 
  already viewing it, follow these steps:
<p> 1. Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.<br>
  2. Under the Advanced category, click Cache. (If no subcategories are visible, 
  double-click the category to expand the list.)</p>
<p></p>
<p>The Cache preferences panel allows you to adjust the Mozilla memory and disk 
  cache:</p>
<ul>
  
<li><b>Memory Cache: </b>Type in the amount of memory-based cache you want to 
    allocate for Mozilla. Memory cache is erased when you turn off or restart 
    the computer.</li>
  <li><b> Disk Cache</b>: Type in the amount of disk cache, and disk cache you 
    want to allocate for Mozilla. Disk cache is saved to your hard disk (drive) 
    and can be used again even if you have turned your computer off.</li>
<li><b> Disk Cache Folder</b>: The folder where you want Mozilla to store your
    disk cache (empty if you do not change the default).</li>
<li><b>Clear Memory Cache: </b>Click this to clear the memory cache.</li>
<li><b>Clear Disk Cache</b>: Click this to clear the memory cache.</li>
<li><b>Choose Folder</b>: Click this to choose the disk cache folder.</li>
<li><b>Compare the page in the cache to the page on the network:</b> 
    
<ul>
      
<li><b>Every time I view the page</b>: Select this if you want Mozilla 
        to compare a web page to the cache every time you view it.</li>
<li><b>Automatically</b>: Select this if you want Mozilla to compare a 
        web page to the cache when the page is determined by the server to haved expired.</li>
<li><b>Once per session</b>: Select this if you want Mozilla to compare 
        a web page to the cache once for each time you start Mozilla.</li>
<li><b>Never</b>: Select this if you do not want Mozilla to compare cached 
        information to the network.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>&nbsp;</p><hr>
<a name="preferences:proxiesIDX"></a> 
<a name="proxies:preferencesIDX"></a> 
<a name="Proxies"></a>
<h2>Advanced Preferences - Proxies</h2>
<p> 
<p>This section describes how to use the Proxies preferences panel. If you're 
  not already viewing it, follow these steps: </p>
<p> 1. Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.<br>
  2. Under the Advanced category, click Proxies. (If no subcategories are visible, 
  double-click the category to expand the list.)</p>
<p></p>
<p>The Proxies preferences panel allows you to set up Mozilla to use a proxy:</p>
<p><b>Before you start: </b>Ask your network administrator if you have a proxy 
  configuration file or for the names and port numbers of the proxy.</p>
<ul>
  
<li><b>Direct connection to the Internet</b>: Choose this if you don't want 
    to use a proxy.</li>
  <li><b>Manual proxy configuration</b>: Choose this if you don't have a proxy 
    location (URL). Type the name or numeric IP address of the proxy server for 
    each type of server (FTP, Gopher, HTTP, SSL, SOCKS). When entering a SOCK 
    Host, select &quot;SOCKS v4&quot; or &quot;SOCKS v5,&quot; depending on what 
    versoin of SOCKS is used for the proxy. In &quot;No Proxy for:,&quot; type 
    the domains that you do not want to use a proxy for. Separate each domain 
    with a comma. (Example: .yourcompany.com, .yourcompany.co.nz)</li>
<li><b>Automatic proxy configuration URL</b>: Choose this if you have a proxy 
    configuration file or URL, then type the configuration URL.</li>
</ul>
<p>&nbsp;</p><hr>
<a name="software_installation:preferencesIDX"></a>
<a name="preferences:software_installationIDX"></a> 
<a name="Software_Installation"></a>
<h2>Advanced Preferences - Software Installation</h2>
<p>This section describes how to use the Software Installation preferences panel. 
  If you're not already viewing it, follow these steps: 
<p> 1. Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.<br>
  2. Under the Advanced category, click Software Installation. (If no subcategories 
  are visible, double-click the category to expand the list.)</p>
<p></p>
<p>The Software Installation preferences panel is ussed to enable software installation 
  and update notification:</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>Enable software installation</b>: Select this if you want Mozilla to 
    prompt you when new software needs to be installed and used with Mozilla.</li>
  <li><b>Check for updates</b>: Select this to be notified when new versions of 
    Mozilla are available. Your personal information is not shared with Mozilla 
    when verifying your version of Mozilla. 
    <ul>
      <li><b>weekly</b>: Choose this if you want Mozilla to check once a week 
        to see if a new version of Mozilla is available.</li>
      <li><b>monthly</b>: Choose this if you want Mozilla to check once a month 
        to see if a new version of Mozilla is available.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>&nbsp;</p><hr>
<a name="mouse_wheel:preferencesIDX"></a> 
<a name="preferences:mouse_wheelIDX"></a>
<a name="Mouse_Wheel"></a>
<h2>Advanced Preferences - Mouse Wheel</h2>
<p>
<p>This section describes how to use the Mouse Wheel preferences panel. If you're 
  not already viewing it, follow these steps: </p>
<p> 1. Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.<br>
  2. Under the Advanced category, click Mouse Wheel. (If no subcategories are 
  visible, double-click the category to expand the list.)</p>
<p></p>
<p>The Mouse Wheel preferences panel allows you to control how the mouse wheel 
  on your mouse (in between your mouse buttons) is used in Mozilla:</p>
<ul>
  
<li><b>Modifier Key</b>: Use the the drop-down list to choose a key that you 
    want to use along with the mouse wheel to perform one of the following functions:
<ul>
      
<li><b>Scroll the document by</b>: Choose this to scroll the document by 
        the number of lines typed in the field. 
        
<ul>
          
<li><b>Use system default</b>: Choose this to override the number of 
            lines entered and instead the system default setting.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><b>Scroll a page up or a page down</b>: Choose this to scroll up or 
        down one page at a time. This settings allows faster, but less accurate 
        scrolling through a page with your mouse wheel..</li>
<li><b>Move back and forward in the browsing history</b>: Choose this to 
        use the mouse wheel to navigate back or forward to previous pages you've 
        visited.</li>
<li><b>Make the text larger or smaller</b>: Choose this to use the mouse 
        wheel to increase or decrease the size of text on a web page. This setting 
        can help you better read a page, or make text fit on the screen.</li>
</ul>
<p><b>Note</b>: Each modifier key can be assigned to a different function.</p>
</li>
</ul>


<p>&nbsp;</p><hr>
<a name="System:preferencesIDX"></a> 
<a name="preferences:SystemIDX"></a> 
<a name="system"></a>
<h2>Advanced Preferences - System</h2>
<p>
<p>This section describes how to use the System preferences panel. If you're not 
  already viewing it, follow these steps: </p>
<p> 1. Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.<br>
  2. Under the Advanced category, click System. (If no subcategories are visible, 
  double-click the category to expand the list.)</p>
<p><b>Note</b>: The System preferences panel appears only on Windows-based platforms.</p>
<p></p>
<p>The System preferences panel allows you to specify what files and protocols 
  are opened using Mozilla:</p>
<ul>
  
<li><b>Windows should use Mozilla to open these file types</b>: Select the 
    file types that you want to open by default using Netscape (HTML, JPEG, GIF, 
    PNG, XML, XUL).</li>
<li><b>Windows should use Mozilla to handle these protocols</b>: Select the 
    protocols that you want to open by default using Mozilla (http, https, ftp, 
    chrome, gopher).</li>
<li><b>Alert me if other applications change these settings: </b>Select this 
    if you want Mozilla to alert you when other applications have changed your 
    default Mozilla file and protocol settings. </li>
</ul>
<p>&nbsp;</p><hr>
<p><i> 6 March 2002</i></p>


</body>
</html>