<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
  %brandDTD;
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Validation Settings</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://help/locale/helpFileLayout.css"
  type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<h1 id="validation_settings">Validation Settings</h1>

<p>This section describes how to set Validation preferences and how to control
  Certificate Revocation List (CRL) settings.</p>

<p>For step-by-step descriptions of various tasks related to validation and
  CRLs, see <a href="using_certs_help.xhtml#controlling_validation">How
  Certificate Validation Works</a>.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
<ul>
  <li><a href="#privacy_and_security_preferences_validation">Privacy &amp;
    Security Preferences - Validation</a></li>
  <li><a href="#manage_crls">Manage CRLs</a></li>
  <li><a href="#crl_import_status">CRL Import Status</a></li>
  <li><a href="#automatic_crl_update_preferences">Automatic CRL Update
  Preferences</a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2 id="privacy_and_security_preferences_validation">Privacy &amp; Security
  Preferences - Validation</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Validation Settings panel. If you are
  not already viewing the panel, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Validation. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>For background information on certificate validation, see
  <a href="using_certs_help.xhtml#controlling_validation">How Certificate
  Validation Works</a>.</p>


<h3 id="crl">CRL</h3>

<p>A certificate revocation list (CRL) is a list of revoked certificates that
  is generated and signed by a
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate_authority">certificate authority
  (CA)</a>. It&apos;s possible to download a CRL to your browser, which can
  check it to ensure that certificates are still valid before permitting their
  use for authentication.</p>

<p>Click Manage CRLs to see a list of the CRLs available to Certificate
  Manager.</p>

<p>For more information about managing CRLs, see
  <a href="using_certs_help.xhtml#managing_crls">Managing CRLs</a>.</p>

<h3 id="ocsp">OCSP</h3>

<p>The Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) makes it possible for
  Certificate Manager to perform an online check of a certificate&apos;s
  validity each time the certificate is viewed or used. This process involves
  checking the certificate against a certificate revocation list (CRL)
  maintained at a specified website. Your computer must be online for OCSP to
  work.</p>

<p>To specify how Certificate Manager uses OCSP, choose one of these settings
  in the OCSP section of Validation Settings:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Do not use OCSP for certificate verification.</strong> Select
    this setting if you don&apos;t want Certificate Manager to perform an
    online status check each time it verifies a certificate. Instead, whenever
    Certificate Manager performs
    <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate_verification">certificate
    verification</a>, it only confirms the certificate&apos;s validity period
    and that it is correctly signed by a CA whose own CA certificate is both
    listed under the CA Certificates tab (in the main Certificate Manager
    window) and marked as trusted for issuing that kind of certificate.</li>
  <li><strong>Use OCSP to verify only certificates that specify an OCSP service
    URL.</strong> Select this setting if you want Certificate Manager perform
    an online status check each time it verifies a certificate that specifies a
    URL for the purpose of performing such a check. If a URL is specified by
    the certificate, Certificate Manager makes sure that the certificate is
    listed there as valid and checks the validity period and trust
    settings.</li>
  <li><strong>Use OCSP to verify all certificates, using the URL and signer
    specified here.</strong> Select this setting if you want Certificate
    Manager to perform an online status check each time it verifies any
    certificate. If you select this setting, you should also choose the
    certificate from the Response Signer pop-up menu that identifies the signer
    of the OCSP responses. With this setting, the only certificates Certificate
    Manager recognizes are those that can be verified by an OCSP response
    signed with the Response Signer certificate (or signed using a certificate
    that chains to it).

    <p>When you choose a Response Signer certificate from the pop-up menu,
      Certificate Manager fills in the Service URL (if available) for that
      signer automatically. If the Service URL is not filled in automatically,
      you must provide it yourself; ask your system administrator for
      details.</p>

  </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="manage_crls">Manage CRLs</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Manage CRLs dialog box. To view it,
  follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Validation. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>Click Manage CRLs.</li>
</ol>

<p>This dialog box displays a list of the
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate_revocation_list">CRLs</a> that you have
  downloaded for use by your browser. Typically, you download a CRL by
  clicking a URL. For information about how CRLs work, see
  <a href="using_certs_help.xhtml#managing_crls">Managing CRLs</a>.</p>

<p>To select a CRL, click it. You can then perform any of these actions:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Delete:</strong> Deletes the CRL permanently from your hard disk.
    Don&apos;t do this unless you&apos;re sure you no longer need the CRL for
    validating certificates. If in doubt, consult your system
    administrator.</li>
  <li><strong>Settings:</strong> Opens the
    <a href="#automatic_crl_update_preferences">Automatic CRL Update
    Preferences</a> dialog box, which allows you to activate automatic CRL
    updates for the selected CRL and specify how frequently they should be
    performed.</li>
  <li><strong>Update:</strong> Immediately updates the selected CRL
  (if possible).</li>
</ul>

<p>The Manage CRLs dialog box provides the following information about each
  CRL:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Organization (O):</strong> The name of the organization that
    issued the CRL.</li>
  <li><strong>Organizational Unit (OU):</strong> The name of the organizational
    unit that issued the CRL (such as the root CA for a particular kind of
    certificate).</li>
  <li><strong>Last Update:</strong> The date on which the browser&apos;s copy
    of this CRL was last updated.</li>
  <li><strong>Next Update:</strong> The next date on which an updated version
    of this CRL will be published by the CRL issuer.</li>
  <li><strong>Auto Update:</strong> Indicates whether Auto Update has been
    enabled for this CRL. To view the settings that control auto updating,
    select the CRL and click Settings.</li>
  <li><strong>Auto Update Status:</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>If Auto Update has not been enabled, or if it has been enabled but
        the next scheduled update has not yet occurrred, this field will be
	blank.</li>
      <li>After at least one auto update has occurred, this field shows
        &quot;failed&quot; if the most recent auto update failed, or
	&quot;OK&quot; if the most recent auto update was successful.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="crl_import_status">CRL Import Status</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the CRL Import Status dialog box, which
  appears when you first attempt to import a CRL or when you successfully
  update it manually.</p>

<p>This dialog box informs you</p>

<ul>
  <li>whether your attempt to import or update the CRL was successful</li>
  <li>what organization issued the CRL</li>
  <li>when the next update of this CRL will be published</li>
  <li>whether Automatic Update is enabled for this CRL</li>
</ul>

<p>If Automatic Update is not enabled, you can turn it on from here:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Yes:</strong> Click Yes to enable automatic updating of this CRL.
    If you click this button, the Automatic CRL Update Preferences dialog box
    appears next. The next section describes how to set these preferences.</li>
  <li><strong>No:</strong> Click No if you wish to leave Automatic Update
    disabled.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="automatic_crl_update_preferences">Automatic CRL Update Preferences</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Automatic CRL Update Preferences
  dialog box. If you are not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Validation. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>Click Manage CRLs, then select the CRL whose auto update preferences you
    want to view or change.</li>
  <li>Click Settings.</li>
</ol>

<p>This dialog box displays the following options and information:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Enable Automatic Update for this CRL:</strong> Select this option
    if you want the CRL you selected to be updated automatically according to
    the schedule you set here. (Note that you can&apos;t select this option if
    the CRL doesn&apos;t specify a Next Update date.)

    <p>If you enable Automatic Update, you must select one of these radio
      buttons:</p>

    <ul>
      <li><strong>Update X days before Next Update date.</strong> Select this
        option if you want to base the update frequency on the frequency with
        which the CRL publisher publishes a new version of the CRL.</li>
      <li><strong>Update every X days.</strong> Select this option if you want
        to specify an update interval unrelated to the CRL&apos;s Next Update
	date.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>CRL would be imported from:</strong> Indicates the URL from which
    the browser originally imported the CRL. This setting cannot be changed. To
    specify a different location, delete the CRL and re-import it from the new
    location.</li>
  <li><strong>Previous Consecutive Update Failures:</strong> Indicates how
    many times update attempts for this CRL have failed consecutively,
    including the most recent failure:
    <ul>
      <li>If the most recent attempt was successful, this reads
        &quot;None&quot; even if there were previous unsuccessful
	attempts.</li>
      <li>If the most recent attempt failed, this indicates the number of
        consecutive failures and the error message for the most recent
	failure.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>Click OK to confirm your choices.</p>

<p>Copyright &copy; 2003-2004 The Mozilla Foundation.</p>

</body>
</html>
