<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd" [
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
	<title>Certificate Information and Decisions</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/locale/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="boilerPlate">This document is provided for your information only.
  It may help you take certain steps to protect the privacy and security of your personal
  information on the Internet. This document does not, however, address all online privacy
  and security issues, nor does it represent a recommendation about what
  constitutes adequate privacy and security protection on the Internet.</div>

<h1 id="certificate_information_and_decisions">Certificate Information and Decisions</h1>
<p>This section describes how to use various windows displayed at different times by
  Certificate Manager. The additional information given here appears when you click
  the Help button in one of those windows.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#certificate_viewer">Certificate Viewer</a></li>
    <li><a href="#choose_security_device">Choose Security Device</a></li>
    <li><a href="#encryption_key_copy">Encryption Key Copy</a></li>
    <li><a href="#certificate_backup">Certificate Backup</a></li>
    <li><a href="#user_identification_request">User Identification Request</a></li>
    <li><a href="#new_certificate_authority">New Certificate Authority</a></li>
    <li><a href="#web_site_certificates">Website Certificates</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="certificate_viewer">Certificate Viewer</h2>


<p>The Certificate Viewer displays information about a certificate you selected in
  one of the Certificate Manager tabs. The General tab summarizes information about
  who issued the certificate, its verification status, what the certificate can be
  used for, and so on. The Details tab provides complete details on the certificate's
  contents.</p>

<p>If you are not currently viewing the Certificate Viewer, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
   <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
     <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
   <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Certificates. (If no
     subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand the list.)</li>
   <li>Click Manage Certificates.</li>
   <li>Click the tab for the type of certificate whose details you want to view.</li>
   <li>Select the certificate whose details you want to view.</li>
   <li>Click View.</li>
</ol>


<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#general_tab">General Tab</a></li>
    <li><a href="#details_tab">Details Tab</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h3 id="general_tab">General Tab</h3>

<p>When you first open the Certificate Viewer, the General tab displays several kinds
  of information about the selected certificate:</p>

<ul>
	<li><strong>This certificate has been verified for the following uses:</strong>
	See <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate_verification">certificate verification</a>
	for a discussion of how the Certificate Manager verifies certificates. Uses can
	include any of the following:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>SSL Client Certificate:</strong> Certificate used to identify you
        to websites.</li>
      <li><strong>SSL Server Certificate:</strong> Certificate used to identify a
        website server to browsers.</li>
      <li><strong>Email Signer Certificate:</strong> Certificate used to identify you
        for the purposes of digitally signing email messages.</li>
      <li><strong>Email Recipient Certificate:</strong> Certificate used to identify
        someone else, for example so you can send that person encrypted email.</li>
      <li><strong>Status Responder Certificate:</strong> Certificate used to identify
        an online status responder that uses the Online Certificate Status Protocol
        (OCSP) to check the validity of certificates. For more information about
        OCSP, see <a href="validation_help.xhtml">Validation Settings</a>.</li>
      <li><strong>SSL Certificate Authority:</strong> Certificate used to identify
        a certificate authority&mdash;that is, a service that issues certificates for
        use as identification over computer networks.</li>
    </ul>
    </li>
	<li><strong>Issued To:</strong> Summarizes the following information about the
	  certificate:
      <ul>
	    <li><strong>Common Name:</strong> The name of the person or other entity that
	      the certificate identifies.</li>
        <li><strong>Organization:</strong> The name of the organization to which the
          entity belongs (such as the name of a company).</li>
        <li><strong>Organizational Unit:</strong> The name of the organizational unit
          to which the entity belongs (such as Accounting Department).</li>
        <li><strong>Serial Number:</strong> The certificate's serial number.</li>
      </ul>
	</li>
	<li><strong>Issued By:</strong> Summarizes information (similar to that provided
	  under "Issued To"; see above) about the certificate authority (CA)
	  that issued the  certificate.</li>
	<li><strong>Validity:</strong> Indicates the period during which the certificate
	  is valid.</li>
	<li><strong>Fingerprints:</strong> Lists the certificate's fingerprints. A
	  fingerprint is a unique number produced by applying a mathematical function to
	  the certificate contents. A certificate's fingerprint can be used to verify that
	  the certificate has not been tampered with.</li>
  </ul>

<h3 id="details_tab">Details Tab</h3>

<p>Click the Details tab at the top of the Certificate Viewer to see more detailed
  information about the selected certificate. To examine information for any certificate
  in the Certificate Hierarchy area, select its name, select the field under Certificate
  Fields that you want to examine, and read the field's value under Field Value:</p>

<ul>
	<li><strong>Certificate Hierarchy:</strong> Displays the certificate chain, with the
	  certificate you originally selected at the bottom. A certificate chain is a
	  hierarchical series of certificates signed by successive certificate authorities
	  (CAs). A CA certificate identifies a <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate_authority">certificate authority</a> and is
	  used to sign certificates issued by that authority. A CA certificate can in turn
	  be signed by the CA certificate of a parent CA and so on up to a <a href="glossary.xhtml#root_ca">root CA</a>.</li>
	<li><strong>Certificate Fields:</strong> Displays the fields of the certificate
	selected under Certificate Hierarchy.</li>
	<li><strong>Field Value:</strong> Displays the value of the field selected under
	Certificate Fields.</li>
</ul>

<p>The Certificate Viewer displays basic ANSI types in human-readable form wherever
  possible. For fields whose contents the Certificate Manager cannot interpret, it
  displays the actual values contained in the certificate.</p>


<h2 id="choose_security_device">Choose Security Device</h2>

<p>A security device (sometimes called a token) is a hardware or software device that
  provides cryptographic services such as encryption and decryption and stores
  certificates and keys. The Choose Security Device window appears when Certificate
  Manager needs help deciding which security device to use when importing a certificate
  or performing a cryptographic operation, such as generating keys for a new
  certificate. This window allows you to select one of two or more security devices
  that Certificate Manager has detected on your machine.</p>

<p>A smart card is one example of a security device. For example, if a smart card reader
  connected to your computer has a smart card inserted in it, the name of the smart card
  will show up in the drop-down menu. In this case, you must choose the name of the smart
  card from the menu to let Certificate Manager know that you want to use it.</p>

<p>The Certificate Manager also supplies its own default, built-in security device, which
  can always be used no matter what additional devices are or aren't available.</p>

<h2 id="encryption_key_copy">Encryption Key Copy</h2>

<p><a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate_authority">Certificate authorities (CAs)</a>
  that issue separate signing and encryption email certificates typically make backup
  copies of your private <a href="glossary.xhtml#encryption_key">encryption key</a> during
  the certificate enrollment process.</p>

<p>The Encryption Key Copy dialog box allows you to approve the creation of such a backup
or cancel the certificate request. A CA that has archived a backup copy of your
encryption key has the potential capability of decrypting any messages you receive that
were encrypted with your corresponding public key.</p>

<p>You can take these actions from the Encryption Key Copy dialog box:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>View Certificate:</strong> To view the certificate identifying the CA that
    is requesting the backup copy, click View Certificate.</li>
  <li><strong>OK:</strong> If you trust the CA identified by the CA certificate to decrypt
    encrypted messages that you receive, click OK.
    <p>If you are not sure whether to trust the CA that is requesting the backup copy, talk
    to your system administrator.</p></li>
	<li><strong>Cancel:</strong> If you don't trust the CA that is requesting the backup
	copy, don't request a certificate from it. Click Cancel to stop both the backup
	procedure and the request for a certificate.</li>
</ul>

<p>After your CA makes a backup copy of the encryption key, you will be able to use that key
  to access your encrypted mail even if you lose your password or lose your own copy of
  the key. If no backup copy of your encryption key exists and you lose your password or
  the key, you will have no way of reading email messages that were encrypted with that key.</p>

<h2 id="certificate_backup">Certificate Backup</h2>

<p>When you receive a certificate, make a backup copy of the certificate and its private key,
  then store the copy in a safe place. For example, you can put the copy on a floppy disk and
  store it with other valuable items under lock and key. That way, even if you have hard disk
  or file corruption problems, you can easily restore the certificate.</p>

<p>It can be inconvenient, at best, and in some situations catastrophic to lose your certificate
  and its associated private key, depending on what you use it for. For example:</p>

<ul>
	<li>If you lose a certificate that identifies you to important websites, you will not be
	  able to access those websites until you obtain a new certificate. </li>
	<li>If you lose a certificate used to encrypt email messages, you will not be able to read
	  any of your encrypted email&mdash;including both encrypted messages that you have sent and
	  encrypted messages that you have received. In this case, if you cannot obtain a backup of
	  the private encryption key associated with the certificate, you will never be able to read
	  any of the messages encrypted with that key.</li>
</ul>

<p>Like any other valuable data, certificates should be backed up to avoid future trouble and
  expense. Do it now so you don't forget.</p>

<h2 id="user_identification_request">User Identification Request</h2>


<p>Some websites require that you identify yourself with a certificate rather than a name
  and password, because certificates provide a more reliable form of identification. This
  method of identifying yourself over the Internet is sometimes called
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#client_authentication">client authentication</a>.</p>

<p>However, Certificate Manager may have more than one certificate on file that can be used
  for the purposes of identifying yourself to a website. In this case, Certificate Manager
  presents the User Identification Request dialog box, which displays two kinds of
  information:</p>

<p><strong>This site has requested that you identify yourself with a certificate:</strong>
  This section of the dialog box lists the following information:</p>
	<ul>
		<li><strong>Host name:</strong> The name of the server requesting identification,
		  used as part of its URL. For example, the host name for the Netscape website
		  is <tt>home.netscape.com</tt>.</li>
		<li><strong>Organization:</strong> The name of the organization that runs the web
		  site.</li>
		<li><strong>Issued under:</strong> The name of the
		  <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate_authority">certificate authority
		  (CA)</a> that issued the certificate.</li>
	</ul>

<p><strong>Choose a certificate to present as identification:</strong> The certificates you
  have available for the purposes of identifying yourself to a website are listed in the
  drop-down list in this section of the dialog box. Choose the certificate that seems most
  likely to be recognized by the website you want to visit.</p>

<p>To help you decide, the following details of the selected certificate are displayed:</p>
	<ul>
		<li><strong>Issued to:</strong> Lists information about the person identified by the
		  certificate (for example, your name and email address) and the certificate's
		  serial number and validity dates.</li>
		<li><strong>Issued by:</strong> Summarizes information about the CA that issued the
		  certificate, such as its name, location, and state.</li>
	</ul>

<h2 id="new_certificate_authority">New Certificate Authority</h2>

<p>The certificates that the Certificate Manager has on file, whether stored on your computer
  or on an external security device such as a smart card, include certificates that
  identify <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate_authority">certificate authorities
  (CAs)</a>. To be able to recognize any other certificates it has on file, Certificate
  Manager must have certificates for the CAs that issued or authorized issuance of those
  certificates.</p>

<p>When you decide to trust a CA, Certificate Manager downloads that CA's certificate and can
  then recognize the kinds of certificates you trust that CA to issue.</p>

<p>Before downloading a new CA certificate, Certificate Manager allows you to specify the
  purposes for which you trust the certificate, if at all. You can select any of the
  following options:</p>

<ul>
	<li><strong>Trust this CA to identify websites: </strong>Website certificates for some
	  sites, such as those that handle financial transactions, can be extremely important,
	  and inappropriate or false identification can have negative consequences.</li>
	<li><strong>Trust this CA to identify email users: </strong>If you intend to send email
	  users confidential information in encrypted form, or if accurate identification of
	  email users is important to you for any other reason, you should consider carefully the
	  CA's procedures for identifying prospective certificate owners and whether they are
	  appropriate for your purposes before selecting this option.</li>
	<li><strong>Trust this CA to identify software developers:</strong> Selecting this option
	  means that you trust the CA to issue certificates that identify the origin of Java
	  applets and JavaScript scripts requesting special access to your computer, such as the
	  ability to change files. Since such access privileges can be misused, for example to
	  destroy data stored on your hard disk, be very careful about selecting this option
	  unless you are certain that you trust the CA for this purpose.</li>
</ul>

<p>Before you decide to trust a new CA, make sure that you know who is operating it. Make
  sure the CA's policies and procedures are appropriate for the kinds of certificates it
  issues. For example, if the CA issues certificates identifying websites you use for
  financial transactions, make sure you are comfortable with the level of assurance the CA
  provides.</p>

<ul>
	<li><strong>View:</strong> Click this button to view the CA certificate you are about to
	  download. If you decide you don't want to download this certificate, click Cancel.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="web_site_certificates">Website Certificates</h2>

<p>One of the windows listed here may appear when you attempt to go to a website that
  supports the use of <a href="glossary.xhtml#secure_sockets_layer">SSL</a> for
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#authentication">authentication</a> and
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#encryption">encryption</a>.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#web_site_certified_by_an_unknown_authority">Website Certified by an Unknown Authority</a></li>
    <li><a href="#server_certificate_expired">Server Certificate Expired</a></li>
    <li><a href="#server_certificate_not_yet_valid">Server Certificate Not Yet Valid</a></li>
    <li><a href="#domain_name_mismatch">Domain Name Mismatch</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h3 id="web_site_certified_by_an_unknown_authority">Website Certified by an Unknown
  Authority</h3>


<p>Many websites use certificates to identify themselves when you visit the site. If
  Certificate Manager doesn't recognize the <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate_authority">
  certificate authority (CA)</a> that issued a website's certificate, it displays an alert
  that allows you to examine the new website certificate and decide what to do.</p>

<ul>
	<li><strong>Examine Certificate:</strong> Click this button to view the website's
	certificate.</li>
</ul>

<p>You can choose one of these options from this alert:</p>
<ul>

	<li><strong>Accept this certificate permanently.</strong> Select this option to accept
	  the certificate (despite the apparent problem) and connect to the website.
	  Certificate Manager will recognize this certificate as legitimate identification until
	  the certificate expires.</li>
	<li><strong>Accept this certificate temporarily for this session.</strong> Select this
	  option to accept the certificate temporarily and connect to the website. Certificate
	  Manager will recognize this certificate as legitimate identification only until the
	  next time you launch the browser. You may see the same alert the next time you attempt
	  to visit the website.</li>
	<li><strong>Do not accept this certificate and do not connect to this website.</strong>
	  Select this option if you decide not to visit the website at all. This option might be
	  appropriate, for example, if you perform financial transactions at the website. In
	  this case you might want to report the problem to the bank or other organization that
	  runs the site and confirm that the site's certificate is valid before you go any
	  further.</li>
</ul>

<p>Click OK to confirm your choice. If you click Cancel, Certificate Manager will not
  recognize the certificate as legitimate identification and will not connect to the web
  site.</p>

<p><strong>Important note for server administrators:</strong> This alert may be triggered by
  a server that is not configured correctly. To find out if this is the case, the server
  administrator or webmaster for the site you are attempting to visit should check the status
  of any required intermediate CAs and if necessary, install the missing certificate in the
  server.</p>

<p>If you decide to contact the website's webmaster about this issue, you can include the
  following information:</p>

<ul>
  <li>The server administrator can obtain more information about intermediate CAs from here:
    <a href="http://kb.verisign.com/esupport/esupport/consumer/esupport.asp?id=vs2119" target="_blank">
    http://kb.verisign.com/esupport/esupport/consumer/esupport.asp?id=vs2119</a></li>
  <li>If the server is using a VeriSign certificate, the server administrator can
    download the appropriate certificate from here:
    <a href="http://www.verisign.com/support/install/index.html" target="_blank">
    http://www.verisign.com/support/install/index.html</a></li>

</ul>

<p><strong>For advanced users:</strong> To ensure that Certificate Manager trusts all
  certificates issued by a given CA, you can edit the trust settings for the corresponding
  CA certificate. To do so, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
   <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
     <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
   <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Certificates. (If no subcategories
     are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand the list.)</li>
   <li>Click Manage Certificates.</li>
   <li>Click the Authorities tab.</li>
   <li>Select the CA certificate whose trust settings you want to edit.</li>
   <li>Click the Edit button and select the appropriate trust settings.</li>
</ol>

<h3 id="server_certificate_expired">Server Certificate Expired</h3>

<p>Like a credit card, a driver's license, and many other forms of identification, a
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate">certificate</a> is valid for a specified period of
  time. When a certificate expires, the owner of the certificate needs to get a new
  one.</p>

<p>Certificate Manager warns you when you attempt to visit a website whose server
  certificate has expired. The first thing you should do is make sure the time and date
  displayed by your computer is correct. If your computer's clock is set to a date that is
  after the expiration date, Certificate Manager treats the website's certificate as
  expired. </p>

<p>If your computer's clock is set correctly, you need to make a decision about whether to
  trust the site. This decision depends on what you intend to do at the site and what else
  you know about it. Most commercial sites will make sure that they replace their
  certificates before they expire. </p>

<p>You can take these actions from the Expired Server Certificate dialog box:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>View Certificate:</strong> To examine information about the certificate,
    including its validity period, click View Certificate.</li>
  <li><strong>OK:</strong> If you have reason to believe the certificate's expiration is an
    inadvertent error, you may choose to click OK to accept the certificate anyway for this
    session, and let the webmaster for the site know about the problem.
    <p>Be cautious about any actions you take while you are visiting the site.</p></li>
  <li><strong>Cancel:</strong> If you suspect that there may be a significant problem and you
    don't want to risk visiting the site at all, click Cancel (in which case Certificate
    Manager will not connect you to the site).</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="server_certificate_not_yet_valid">Server Certificate Not Yet Valid</h3>

<p>Like a credit card, a driver's license, and many other forms of identification, a
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate">certificate</a> is valid for a specified period of
  time.</p>

<p>Certificate Manager warns you when you attempt to visit a website whose server
  certificate's validity period has not yet started. The first thing you should do is make
  sure the time and date displayed by your own computer is correct. If your computer's clock
  is set to the wrong date, Certificate Manager may treat the server certificate as not yet
  valid even if this is not the case. </p>

<p>If your computer's clock is set correctly, you need to make a decision about whether to
  trust the site. This decision depends on what you intend to do at the site and what else
  you know about it. Most commercial sites will make sure that the validity period for their
  certificates has begun before beginning to use them. </p>

<p>You can take these actions from the Server Certificate Not Yet Valid dialog box:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>View Certificate:</strong> To examine information about the certificate,
    including its validity period, click View Certificate.</li>
  <li><strong>OK:</strong> If you have reason to believe the problem is an inadvertent error,
    you may choose to click OK to accept the certificate anyway for this session, and let
    the webmaster for the site know about the problem.
    <p>Be cautious about any actions you take while you are visiting the site.</p></li>
  <li><strong>Cancel:</strong> If you suspect that there may be a significant problem and you
    don't want to risk visiting the site at all, click Cancel (in which case Certificate
    Manager will not connect you to the site).</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="domain_name_mismatch">Domain Name Mismatch</h3>

<p>A server <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate">certificate</a> specifies the name of the
  server in the form of the site's domain name. For example, the domain name for the Mozilla
  website is <tt>www.mozilla.org</tt>. If the domain name in a server's certificate
  doesn't match the actual domain name of the website, it may be a sign that someone is
  attempting to intercept your communication with the website.</p>

<p>The decision whether to trust the site anyway depends on what you intend to do at the site
  and what else you know about it. Most commercial sites will make sure that the host name
  for a website certificate matches the website's actual host name.</p>

<p>You can take these actions from the Domain Name Mismatch dialog box:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>View Certificate:</strong> To examine information about the certificate, click
    View Certificate.</li>
  <li><strong>OK:</strong> If you have reason to believe the problem is an inadvertent error,
    you may choose to click OK to accept the certificate anyway for this session, and let the
    webmaster for the site know about the problem.
    <p>Be cautious about any actions you take while you are visiting the site, and treat any
    information you find there as potentially suspect.</p></li>
  <li><strong>Cancel:</strong> If you suspect that there may be a significant problem and you
    don't want to risk visiting the site at all, click Cancel (in which case Certificate
    Manager will not connect you to the site).</li>
</ul>

<p>If you decide to accept the certificate anyway for this session, you should be cautious
  about what you do on the website, and you should treat any information you find there as
  potentially suspect.</p>

<p>Copyright &copy; 2003-2004 The Mozilla Foundation.</p>

</body>
</html>
