<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
]
>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
	<title>Privacy &amp; Security Preferences - Certificates</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/locale/helpFileLayout.css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="certificate_settings">Certificate Settings</h1>

<p>This section describes how to set your certificate preferences and how to use the
  Certificate Manager, Device Manager, and other dialog boxes related to certificates.</p>

<p>For step-by-step descriptions of various tasks related to certificates, see
  <a href="using_certs_help.xhtml">Using Certificates</a>.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#privacy_and_security_preferences_certificates">Certificate Preferences</a></li>
    <li><a href="certs_help.xhtml">Certificate Manager</a></li>
    <li><a href="certs_help.xhtml#device_manager">Device Manager</a></li>
    <li><a href="cert_dialog_help.xhtml">Certificate Information and Decisions</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h1 id="privacy_and_security_preferences_certificates">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences -
 Certificates</h1>

<p>This section describes use the Certificates preferences panel. To view Certificates
  preferences, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
   <li>Open the Edit menu (&brandShortName; menu on Mac OS X) and choose Preferences.</li>
   <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Certificates. (If no subcategories
     are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand the list.)</li>
</ol>

<h3 id="client_certificate_selection">Client Certificate Selection</h3>

<p>Some websites require you to identify yourself with a certificate. The option you select
  here determines how Navigator identifies the certificate to present among those you may
  have on file:</p>
<ul>
	<li><strong>Select Automatically:</strong> Click this option if you want Navigator to
	  select a certificate without asking you. This is the default setting.</li>
	<li><strong>Ask Every Time:</strong> Click this option if you want Navigator to ask you
	  which certificate to use each time a website requests one.</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="manage_certificates">Manage Certificates</h3>

<p>Certificates are the digital equivalent of ID cards&mdash;they help other people identify
  you, and they help you identify other people, websites, and organizations.</p>

<p>To examine or configure the certificates you have on file, click Manage Certificates.</p>

<h3 id="manage_security_devices">Manage Security Devices</h3>

<p>A security device is a hardware or software device that stores your certificates and keys.
  For example, a smart card is a security device. Your browser has its own built-in software
  security device, and you can use additional security devices, such as smart cards, at the
  same time.</p>

<p>To examine or configure your security devices, click Manage Security Devices.</p>


<p>Copyright &copy; 2003-2004 The Mozilla Foundation.</p>

</body>
</html>
