<html>
<head>
<title>Mozilla Appearance Preferences Help</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://help/locale/content_style.css" type="text/css">
<!-- <link rel="stylesheet" href="../style.css" type="text/css"> -->

</head>

<body bgcolor="white">
<a NAME="appearance_pref"></a> 
<h1>Appearance Preferences</h1>
<p>This section describes how to use the Appearance preference panel. If you are 
  not already viewing the panel, follow these steps:</p>
<p> 1. Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.<br>
  2. Choose Appearance. (Click the triangle next to Appearance to expand the list.)</p>
<table CELLSPACING=2 CELLPADDING=4 WIDTH="324" BGCOLOR="#CCCCCC" >
  <tr> 
    <td class="inthissection"> 
      <p>In this section: 
      <p><a href="#appearance">Appearance</a> 
      <p><a href="#fonts">Fonts</a> 
      <p><a href="#colors">Colors</a> 
      <p><a href="#themes">Themes</a> 
      <p><a href="#content">Content Packs</a> 
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a name="preferences:appearanceIDX"></a><a NAME="appearance"></a> 
<h2>Appearance Preferences - Appearance</h2>
<p>Used to set components that you want to use when you start up Mozilla. 
<ul>
  <li><b>When Mozilla starts up, open</b>: Select the components you want to 
    use when you start up Mozilla. 
  <li><b>Show Tooltips</b>: Select this if you want to have tips appear when the 
    cursor is placed over parts of the Mozilla user interface. 
  <li><b>Choose your preferred language for Mozilla</b>: Select the language 
    that you want to use in Mozilla. 
</ul>
<p> [&nbsp;<A HREF="#appearance_pref">Return to beginning of section</A>&nbsp;] 
</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a name="preferences:fontsIDX"></a> <a NAME="fonts"></a> 
<h2>Appearance Preferences - Fonts</h2>
<p> 
<p>Used to set page font type and size setting, as well as the screen resolution.</p>
<p><b>Note</b>: Some font styles may not be selectable because if selected language 
  does not have fonts available for that style.</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>Fonts for</b>: Choose a language character set. For instance, to set 
    default fonts for the Western (Roman) character set, choose "Western." </li>
  <li><b>Proportional</b>: Select whether proportional text should be serif (like 
    Times Roman) or sans-serif (like Arial). You can also specify what font size 
    you want for proportional text. Proportional text is variable in width, so 
    characters and letters vary in width.</li>
  <li><b>Serif</b>: Select a serif font you want to use for web pages. </li>
  <li><b>Sans-serif</b>: Select a sans-serif font you want to use for web pages. 
  </li>
  <li><b>Cursive</b>: Select a cursive font you want to use for web pages. </li>
  <li><b>Fantasy</b>: Select a fantasy you want to use for web pages. </li>
  <li><b>Monospace</b>: Select a monospace font (like Courier) you want to use 
    for web pages. Monospace text is fixed in width, so each character or letter 
    takes the same amount of space.</li>
  <li><b>Allow documents to use other fonts</b>: If available, select this checkbox 
    to keep a web page's font and size settings instead of your own preferences.</li>
  <li><b>Display resolution</b>: Select from the drop-down list the dots per inch 
    (dpi) for displaying web pages. Select &quot;Other&quot; to open the Calibrate 
    Resolution dialog box, which allows you to calibrate your resolution by measuring 
    how long a line appears on your screen. Increased screen resolution may will 
    improve text readability on some screens.<br>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>[&nbsp;<a href="#appearance_pref">Return to beginning of section</a>&nbsp;] 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a name="preferences:colorsIDX"></a> 
<p><a name="colors"></a> </p>
<h2>Appearance Preferences - Colors</h2>
<p> 
<p>Used to set the background and text colors on web pages.</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>Text and Background</b>: Click the colored blocks to select a color for 
    displaying text and backgrounds on web pages. Check &quot;Use system colors&quot; 
    to use your system color settings.</li>
  <li><b>Link Colors</b>: Click the colored blocks to select a color for displaying 
    unvisited and visited links on web pages. Click &quot;Underline links&quot; 
    to display underlined links on web pages.</li>
  <li><b>When a web page provides its own colors and backgrounds</b>: Choose from 
    the two options, &quot;Always use the colors and background specified by the 
    web page&quot; or &quot;Use my chosen colors, ignoring the colors specified&quot; 
    to display pages using colors and backgrounds specified by either the web 
    page or by you, respectively.</li>
  <li><b>View Source Window</b>: Click &quot;Enable syntax viewing&quot; to enable 
    you to see the HTML syntax of the souce of a web page highlighted in specific 
    colors.</li>
</ul>
<p>[&nbsp;<a href="#appearance_pref">Return to beginning of section</a>&nbsp;] 
</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a name="preferences:themesIDX"></a> <a name="themes"></a> 
<h2>Appearance Preferences - Themes</h2>
<p> 
<p>Used to set the look of Mozilla.</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>Themes</b>: Choose one of the installed themes to change the look of 
    Mozilla, and then click &quot;Apply [Theme Name]&quot; to make change. Click 
    &quot;Uninstall [Theme Name]&quot; to remove the theme instead. 
    <p><b>Note</b>: You will not be able to switch back to a theme you have uninstalled.</p>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>[&nbsp;<a href="#appearance_pref">Return to beginning of section</a>&nbsp;] 
</p>
<p>&nbsp; </p>
<a name="preferences:content_packsIDX"></a> 
<p><a name="content"></a> </p>
<h2>Appearance Preferences - Content Packs</h2>
<p>Used to select a content pack to use within Mozilla.</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>Installed content packs</b>: Select a content pack to use within Mozilla. 
    Content packs customize the content within parts of Mozilla, like toolbars, 
    My Sidebar, and bookmarks.</li>
  <li><b>Download More</b>: Click this to download more content packs. 
    <p><b>Note</b>: You must restart Mozilla for a new content pack to take effect.</p>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>[&nbsp;<a href="#appearance_pref">Return to beginning of section</a>&nbsp;] 
</p>
<p>&nbsp; </p>
<hr>
<p> <i> 
  <!-- #BeginDate format:Sw1 -->11 July, 2001<!-- #EndDate -->
  </i> </p>
<hr>
<p>Copyright 1998-2001 The Mozilla Organization.</p>

</body>
</html>