<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
  %brandDTD;

]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>&brandShortName; Navigator Preferences Help</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://help/locale/helpFileLayout.css"
  type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<h1 id="navigator_preferences">Navigator Preferences</h1>

<p>This section describes how to use the Navigator preference panel. If
  you&apos;re not already viewing the panel, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Choose Navigator.</li>
</ol>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
<ul>
  <li><a href="#navigator">Navigator</a></li>
  <li><a href="#history">History</a></li>
  <li><a href="#languages">Languages</a></li>
  <li><a href="#helper_applications">Helper Applications</a></li>
  <li><a href="#smart_browsing">Smart Browsing</a></li>
  <li><a href="#internet_search">Internet Search</a></li>
  <li><a href="#tabbed_browsing">Tabbed Browsing</a></li>
  <li><a href="#downloads">Downloads</a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2 id="navigator">Navigator Preferences - Navigator</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the main Navigator preferences panel. If
  you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Click the Navigator category.</li>
</ol>

<p>The Navigator preferences panel allows you to customize certain aspects of
  the browser.</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Display on</strong>: Use the drop-down list in combination with
    the checkboxes to control what will be displayed at startup or when you
    open a new window or tab:
    <ol>
      <li>
        <ul>
          <li>Select <strong>Navigator Startup</strong> to set what Navigator
	    will display at startup.</li>
          <li>Select <strong>New Window</strong> to set what will be displayed
	    when opening a new Navigator window.</li>
          <li>Select <strong>New Tab</strong> to set what will be displayed
	    when opening a new tab.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Select one of the following checkboxes:
        <ul>
          <li><strong>Blank page</strong>: Causes Navigator to display a blank
            page.</li>
          <li><strong>Home page</strong>: Causes Navigator to load your home
	    page (specified below).</li>
          <li><strong>Last page visited</strong>: Causes Navigator to load the
	    page you were viewing right before you last exited
	    &brandShortName;.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li class="win"><strong>Default Browser:</strong> Allows you to set
    &brandShortName; as the default browser or shows you that it is.
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Set Default Browser:</strong> Unless it is greyed out, click
        this to set &brandShortName; as your default browser.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Home Page</strong>: In the field, type the web page you want as
    your home page or do one of the following:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Use Current Page</strong>: Click this to use the web page
        currently displayed in Navigator as your home page.</li>
      <li><strong>Use Current Group</strong>: If you have two or more Navigator
        tabs open, click this to set them as your Home Page Group (a group of
	tabs that are opened as your home page). After clicking this button,
	the message &quot;Home Page Group is Set&quot; appears in the location
	field.
        
	<p><strong>Caution</strong>: If you edit the field after clicking Use
	  Current Group, your Home Page Group will be lost.</p>
      
      </li>
      <li><strong>Restore Default</strong>: Click this to revert to the
        the default home page.</li>
      <li><strong>Choose File</strong>: Click this to locate a file on disk
        that you want to load as your home page.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Select the buttons you want to see in the toolbars</strong>:
    Select any of the available checkboxes to see them on your
    toolbars.
    
    <p>The Go, Search, and Print buttons appear in the Navigation Toolbar near
      the upper-right corner of the Navigator window. All other buttons appear
      in the Personal Toolbar. For information about adding your own bookmarks
      to this toolbar, see
      <a href="customize_help.xhtml#personal_toolbar">Personal
      Toolbar</a>.</p>

  </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="history">Navigator Preferences - History</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the History preferences panel. If
  you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span>menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Navigator category, click History. (If no subcategories are
    visible, double-click Navigator to expand the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>The History preferences panel allows you to configure three history settings
  on Navigator.</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Browsing History</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Remember visited pages for the last __ days</strong>: Type
        the number of days you want &brandShortName; to keep track of the web
	pages you have previously visited. For example, if you set this number
	to 10 days, pages 10 days old or less will be kept in the history
	list.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Clear History</strong>: Click this to delete the list of sites
    visited.</li>
  <li><strong>Location Bar History</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Clear Location Bar</strong>: Click this to clear the list of
        sites in the Location bar menu.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>For more information about history in &brandShortName;, see
  <a href="nav_help.xhtml#retracing_your_steps">Retracing Your Steps</a>.</p>

<h2 id="languages">Navigator Preferences - Languages</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Languages preferences panel. If
  you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Navigator category, click Languages. (If no subcategories are
    visible, double-click Navigator to expand the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>The Languages preferences panel allows you to choose the languages and
  character encoding for displaying web pages:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Languages for Web Pages</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Move Up / Move Down</strong>: Click one of these buttons to
        move a selected language up or down, which sets the order of preference
	for the listed languages.</li>
      <li><strong>Add</strong>: Click this to add additional languages for
        displaying web pages.</li>
      <li><strong>Remove</strong>: Click this to remove a selected
        language.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Character Encoding:</strong>
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Default Character Encoding</strong>: Use the drop-down list
        to select the character encoding you want for displaying web
	pages.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="helper_applications">Navigator Preferences - Helper Applications</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Helper Applications preferences panel.
  If you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Navigator category, click Helper Applications. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Navigator to expand the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>The Helper Applications preferences panel allows you to control how
  different file types are opened by other applications in
  &brandShortName;:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Specify how to handle files of each type:</strong>
    <ul>
      <li><strong>File types</strong>: Displays the file types that
        &brandShortName; uses. Select one of them to show the following
	information:
        <ul>
	  <li><strong>Description</strong>: Displays a description of the
	    selected file type.</li>
          <li><strong>Extension(s)</strong>: Displays the file extension(s) of
	    the selected file type.</li>
          <li><strong>MIME type</strong>: Displays the MIME type of the
	    selected file type.</li>
          <li><strong>When encountered</strong>: Displays what kind of action
	    that will be taken when &brandShortName; encounter the selected
	    file type.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li><strong>New Type</strong>: Click this to add a new file type. You see
        a dialog box:
	<ul>
	  <li><strong>Mime Type</strong>: Type the Mime type of the file type
	    you want to add.</li>
	  <li><strong>Description</strong>: Type a Descrition of the file
	    type you want to add.</li>
	  <li><strong>Extension</strong>: Type the file extension of the file
	    type you want to add.</li>
	  <li><strong>When a file of this type is encountered</strong>:
	    Select one option from the checkboxes:
	    <ul>
              <li><strong>Open it using the default application</strong>:
		Causes the the file to be opened by the default program in
		your systems settings.</li>
	      <li><strong>Open it with</strong>: Causes the file to be
		opened by a program you specify. Use the Choose File button
		to locate the program on your disk</li>
	      <li><strong>Save it to disk</strong>: The file will be saved
		to disk.</li>
            </ul>
	  </li>
	  <li><strong>Always ask me when handling files of this
	    type</strong>: Select this to make the Download Dialog box always
	    appear when files of this type are encountered.</li>
	</ul>
      </li>
      <li><strong>Edit</strong>: Click this to change the file-handling
        information of a selected file type.</li>
      <li><strong>Remove</strong>: Click this to remove a selected file
        type.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Plug-in Finder Service</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Always use the Netscape Plug-in Finder Service (PFS) to get
        plug-ins</strong>: Select this to always use the Plugin Finder Service
	(PFS) whenever &brandShortName; needs a new plug-in. If left
	unselected, the PFS is only used when a plug-in location is not
	provided by the web page that requires the plug-in.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>To learn more about how to handle different file types with
  &brandShortName;, see
  <a href="nav_help.xhtml#managing_different_file_types">Managing Different
  File Types</a>.</p>

<h2 id="smart_browsing">Navigator Preferences - Smart Browsing</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Smart Browsing preferences panel. If
  you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Navigator category, click Smart Browsing. (If no subcategories
    are visible, double-click Navigator to expand the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>The Smart Browsing preferences panel allows you to better browse web pages
  using Internet Keywords, Location Bar Autocomplete and Domain Guessing.</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Internet Keywords</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Enable Internet Keywords</strong>: Select this to enable fast
        access to services such as stock quotes, search, and other information
	from the Location bar.</li>
      <li><strong>More Information</strong>: Click this to learn more about
        using Internet Keywords.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li id="location_bar_autocomplete"><strong>Location Bar
    Autocomplete</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Automatically complete text typed into Location bar</strong>:
        Select this to automatically complete text you previously entered into
	the Location bar.</li>
      <li><strong>Advanced</strong>: Click this and select one or more of the
        following options:
        <ul>
          <li><strong>Autocomplete best match as you type</strong>: As you
	    type in the Location Bar, &brandShortName; will automatically
	    complete your web address using the visited website it most closely
	    matches.</li>
          <li><strong>Show list of matching results</strong>: As you type in
	    the Location Bar, &brandShortName; will show a drop-down list of
	    matching visited web addresses.</li>
          <li><strong>Show internet search engine</strong>: Shows a drop-down
	    list item allowing you to search the default search engine for
	    words you enter.</li>
          <li><strong>Match only website you&apos;ve typed previously</strong>:
            Shows only websites that you&apos;ve typed in the Location Bar and
	    not sites that were opened in other ways, such as clicking a link
	    on a web page.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Domain Guessing</strong>: Select this if you want
    &brandShortName; to automatically add <tt>www.</tt> and <tt>com.</tt> to a
    web page location that can&apos;t be found. For more detailed information
    about the Domain Guessing feature, see the online document
    <a href="http://www.mozilla.org/docs/end-user/domain-guessing.html"
    target="_blank">Domain Guessing</a>.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="internet_search">Navigator Preferences - Internet Search</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Internet Search preferences panel. If
  you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Navigator category, click Internet Search. (If no subcategories
    are visible, double-click Navigator to expand the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>The Internet Search preferences panel allows you to configure how you search
  using &brandShortName;:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Default Search Engine</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Search using</strong>: Use the drop-down list to select the
        search engine you want use for web searching.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Search Results</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Open the Search tab in the Sidebar when search results are
        available</strong>: Select this to have &brandShortName; open the
	Sidebar and show your search results.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Sidebar Search Tab Preference</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Basic</strong>: Choose this to use one search engine when
        searching in &brandShortName;.</li>
      <li><strong>Advanced</strong>: <strong></strong>Choose this to select one
        or more search engines from a list when searching in
	&brandShortName;.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="tabbed_browsing">Navigator Preferences - Tabbed Browsing</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Tabbed Browsing preferences panel. If
  you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Navigator category, click Tabbed Browsing. (If no subcategories
    are visible, double-click Navigator to expand the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>The Tabbed Browsing preferences panel allows you to set up Tabbed
  Browsing:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Tab Display</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Hide the tab bar when only one tab is open</strong>: Select
        this to display the Tabbed Browsing bar only when more then one
	Navigator tab is open.</li>
      <li><strong>Select new tabs opened from links</strong>: Select this to
        make &brandShortName; switch to the new tab when using &quot;Open in a
	New Tab&quot; to open a link.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>When opening a bookmark group</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Add tabs</strong>: Select this if you want a bookmark group
        to be opened in new tabs.</li>
      <li><strong>Replace existing tabs</strong>: Select this if you want a
        bookmark group to replace your existing tabs.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Open tabs instead of windows for</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong><span class="mac"><kbd>Cmd</kbd>+click or
        <kbd>Cmd</kbd>+<kbd>Return</kbd></span>
	<span class="noMac">Middle-click, <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+click or
	<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> on links in a Web
	page</span></strong>: Select this to open Web page links in a new tab
	when clicking a link <span class="mac">and holding down the
	<kbd>Command</kbd> key or holding down the <kbd>Command</kbd> key and
	pressing <kbd>Return</kbd> on links</span> <span class="noMac">with the
	middle mouse button, <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>-clicking on links, and pressing
	<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> on links</span>.

	<p><strong>Tip</strong>: Use Find Links as You Type to navigate to the
	  link you want to open with the keyboard commands above.</p>

      </li>

      <li><strong>
        <kbd class="mac">Cmd</kbd><kbd class="noMac">Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd
	class="mac">Return</kbd><kbd class="noMac">Enter</kbd> in the Location
	bar</strong>: Select this to open a Web page in a new tab when you type
	the URL of the page in the Location Bar and press
	<kbd class="mac">Cmd</kbd><kbd class="noMac">Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd
	class="mac">Return</kbd><kbd class="noMac">Enter</kbd>.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="downloads">Navigator Preferences - Downloads</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Downloads preferences panel. If
  you&apos;re not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Navigator category, click Downloads. (If no subcategories are
    visible, double-click Navigator to expand the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>The Downloads preferences panel allows you to set up how &brandShortName;
  handles files you download from web pages:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>When starting a download</strong>:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Open the download manager</strong>: Select this to display
        the Download Manager, which displays the status for current and
	previous downloads. The status of all downloads is kept in a single
	window.</li>
      <li><strong>Open a progress dialog</strong>: Select this to display a
        progress dialog box, which display the status for your current
	download. The status of each download is kept in a separate
	window.</li>
      <li><strong>Don&apos;t open anything</strong>: Select this if you want to
        download files invisibly. No status is given for all your
	downloads.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>For more information about downloading files from web pages, see
  <a href= "nav_help.xhtml#managing_different_file_types">Managing Different
  File Types</a>.</p>

<p>Copyright &copy; 2003-2004 The Mozilla Foundation.</p>

</body>
</html>
