<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
  <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >
  %brandDTD;
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>&brandShortName; Tools and Development</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="helpFileLayout.css"
  type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<h1 id="web_development_tools">Web Development Tools</h1>

<p>For web developers, &brandShortName; provides several tools to aid in
  developing and debugging Web applications. Some of these are optional
  installs. To access these tools, open the Tools menu and choose Web
  Development.</p>

<ul class="separate">
  <li id="js_console">
    <strong>Error Console</strong>: a console window that reports problems
    with <a href="glossary.xhtml#javascript">JavaScript</a> and CSS code in
    Web applications and the &brandShortName; application itself. By default, 
    CSS parsing errors and JavaScript errors are displayed. The console can 
    also be used to display logged messages from <a href="glossary.xhtml#xul">
    XUL</a> and JavaScript code.
  </li>
  <li id="inspector">
    <strong>DOM Inspector</strong>: a tool that can be
    used to inspect and edit the DOM of any web document or XUL
    application.

    <p>Online resources:</p>
    
    <ul>
      <li><a href="http://www.brownhen.com/DI/">Introduction to the DOM
        Inspector</a> (Ian Oeschger)</li>
      <li><a href="http://www.mozilla.org/projects/inspector/faq.html">DOM
        Inspector FAQ</a> (mozilla.org)</li>
      <!-- 2006-01-27: Removed link (404).
      <li><a href="http://gr.ayre.st/moz/evangelism/tutorials/dominspectortutorial.shtml">grayrest&apos;s
        Guide to the DOM Inspector</a></li>
      -->
      <li>Creating Applications with Mozilla - Appendix B3:
        <a href="http://books.mozdev.org/html/mozilla-app-b-sect-3.html">The
        DOM Inspector</a></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li id="venkman">
    <strong>JavaScript Debugger</strong>: also known as Venkman, this utility
    allows you to debug JavaScript in &brandShortName;. It supports stepping,
    breakpoints and many other features.

    <p>Online resources:</p>

    <ul>
      <li><a href="http://www.mozilla.org/projects/venkman/">Venkman JavaScript
        Debugger Homepage</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://www.svendtofte.com/code/learning_venkman/">Learning
        the JavaScript debugger Venkman</a> (Svend Tofte)</li>
      <li><a href="http://www.webreference.com/programming/javascript/venkman/">Debugging
        JavaScript Using Venkman</a> (webreference.com, article series)</li>
      <li><a href="http://www.hacksrus.com/~ginda/venkman/">Venkman Development
        Homepage</a></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>&copyright.string;</p>

</body>
</html>
