<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
<title>For Microsoft Internet Explorer Users</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://help/locale/content_style.css" type="text/css">

</head>

<body>


<a NAME="for_microsoft_users"></a>
<a NAME="MicrosoftSDX"></a>
<h1>For Internet Explorer Users</h1>

<p>If you’ve been using Microsoft&reg; Internet Explorer, you'll find that it's easy to begin 
using Mozilla for <a HREF="nav_help.html#browsing_the_web">browsing the web</a>,  <a HREF="mail_help.html#mail_using">managing your mail</a>, and much more.</p> 

<p><strong>Note</strong>: This information only applies to Mozilla for Windows, Mac OS, Solaris, and HP-UX.</p>

<table summary="list of headings" cellpadding=4 cellspacing=2 bgcolor="#cccccc" Width=324>
<tr>
<td class="inthissection">
<p>In this section:</p>

<p><a href="#terminology_differences">Mozilla and Internet Explorer Terminology Differences</a></p>
<p><a href="#your_favorites">About Your IE Favorites</a></p>
<p><a href="#key_features">Browser Features</a></p>
<p><a href="#additional_software">Other Features</a></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>


<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a NAME="terminology_differences"></a>
<a NAME="profiles:creatingIDX"></a>
<h2>Mozilla and Internet Explorer Terminology Differences</h2>

<p></p>
<table summary="IE and Mozilla Differences" width="95%" border="1" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0" bordercolor="#999999">
<tbody> 
<td bgcolor="#99CCFF"> <b>Internet Explorer</b> </td>
<td bgcolor="#99CCFF"> <b>Mozilla</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left">Internet Options
</td>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left"><a HREF="cs_nav_prefs_navigator.html#default_browser_preferences">Preferences</a>

</div>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left">Temporary Internet Files</div>
</td>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left"><a HREF="nav_help.html#nav_cache">Cache</a>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left">Favorites</div>

</td>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left"> <a HREF="customize_help.html#cust_bkmk">Bookmarks</a>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left">Address Bar</div>
</td>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left"> <a HREF="nav_help.html#nav_move">Location Bar</a>
</td>

</tr>
<tr>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left">Refresh</div>
</td>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left"> <a HREF="nav_help.html#nav_reload">Reload</a>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left">Links Bar</div>
</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left"><a HREF="customize_help.html#cust_personal">Personal Toolbar </a>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left">Copy Shortcut</div>
</td>
<td bgcolor="#eeeeee"> 
<div align="left">Copy Link Location</div>
</td>
</tr>
</table>	 
	

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<a NAME="your_favorites"></a>
<a NAME="profiles:creatingIDX"></a>
<h2>About Your IE Favorites</h2>

<p>Your IE Favorites are imported automatically. To access them, 
open the Bookmarks menu and choose Imported IE Favorites.</p>


<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a NAME="key_features"></a>
<a NAME="profiles:deletingIDX"></a>
<a NAME="profiles:renamingIDX"></a>
<h2>Browser Features</h2>
<p>
<ul>

	<li><strong><a HREF="nav_help.html#nav_tabbed_browsing">Tabbed Browsing</a></strong>: Instead of opening a separate browser window 
	for each site you want to visit, you can open multiple sites within the same window and tab between them. You can also <a HREF="cs_nav_prefs_navigator.html#Navigator">set a group of tabs as your home page</a>.</li>
	<li><strong><a HREF="cs_priv_prefs_popup.html">Pop-up Window Controls</a></strong>: Lets you allow or suppress both popup and popunder windows.</li>
	<li><strong><a HREF="customize_help.html#cust_sidebar">Sidebar</a></strong>: Customize 
	Mozilla with frequently accessed content and tools such as news, 
	stock quotes, your bookmarks, browser history, and many other options.</li>
	<li><strong><a HREF="profiles_help.html#managing_profiles">Profile Manager</a></strong>: Create different profiles, each with its own bookmarks, preferences, 
	mail settings, and so on. This is useful if you must share Mozilla on the same computer with other people, or if you want to keep your work and personal settings separate.</li>

        <li><strong><a HREF="using_priv_help.html#cookies:aboutIDX">Cookie Manager</a></strong>: Lets you change what Mozilla will do when accepting cookies through it's support for the <a href="using_priv_help.html#P3P_settingsSDX">P3P privacy standard</a>.</li>
        <li><strong><a HREF="using_priv_help.html#managing_images">Image Manager</a></strong>: Enables you to disable images from certain websites, or disable them all together. This is useful if you wish to decrease the amount of time it takes for websites to load.</li>
</ul>
</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<a NAME="additional_software"></a>
<a NAME="profiles:deletingIDX"></a>
<a NAME="profiles:renamingIDX"></a>
<h2>Other Features</h2>

<p>
In the lower left-hand corner of your browser, a component bar gives you quick access to several useful features:</p>
<ul>
	<li><strong><a HREF="mail_help.html#mail_using">Mail &amp; Newsgroups</a></strong>: Conveniently manage all your Internet communications. You can set up and 
	maintain multiple business and personal mail accounts and Internet newsgroups, all from one window. 
	You can <a HREF="mail_help.html#importing_mail">import</a> mail and settings from other popular email programs. </li>
	<li><strong><a HREF="mail_help.html#use_add_book">Address Books</a></strong>: Create an address book or  <a HREF="mail_help.html#import_address_book">import</a> contact information from other popular mail programs. </li>

	<li><strong><a HREF="composer_help.html#comp_top">Composer</a></strong>: Create, edit, and publish your pages on the web with this built-in web page editor.</li>
        <li><strong>ChatZilla</strong>: Built-in IRC client that lets you chat with other people over IRC networks.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<a NAME="keyboard_shortcuts"></a>
<h2>Keyboard Shortcuts</h2>
<p>You will notice that Microsoft Internet Explorer and Mozilla share many of the same shortcut keys. For a full list of shortcut keys, see the List of <a href="shortcuts.xhtml">Mozilla Keyboard Shortcuts</a>.</p>

<hr>

<p><i>28 July 2003</i></p>

<hr>
<p>Copyright &copy; 1998-2003 The Mozilla Organization.</p>

</body>
</html>
