<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
  <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >
  %brandDTD;
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Password Settings</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="helpFileLayout.css"
  type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<h1 id="password_settings">Password Settings</h1>

<p>This section describes how to set your password preferences, set your Master
  Password, and control other aspects of password handling.</p>

<p>For step-by-step descriptions of various tasks related to passwords, see
  <a href="using_priv_help.xhtml#using_the_password_manager">Using the Password
  Manager</a>.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#passwords">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences -
      Passwords</a></li>
    <li><a href="#password_manager">Password Manager</a></li>
    <li><a href="#master_passwords">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences -
      Master Passwords</a></li>
    <li><a href="#change_master_password">Change Master Passwords</a></li>
    <li><a href="#master_password_timeout">Master Password Timeout</a></li>
    <li><a href="#reset_master_password">Reset Master Password</a></li>
    <li><a href="#choosing_a_good_password">Choosing a Good Password</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="passwords">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences - Passwords</h2>

<p>This section describes the Passwords preferences panel. If you&apos;re not
  already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Passwords. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
</ol>

<h3>Password Manager</h3>

<p>Password Manager preferences allow you to</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Remember passwords</strong>: Select this checkbox to turn
    Password Manager on, so that it asks to store your user names and passwords
    at appropriate times and enters them for you automatically when
    they&apos;re requested. To turn off Password Manager, deselect the same
    checkbox.</li>
  <li><strong>Manage Stored Passwords</strong>: Click this button to manage
    information about your stored passwords and the sites whose user names and
    passwords you don&apos;t want to be stored.</li>
</ul>

<p>For detailed information about using Password Manager, including how to
  override it for individual sites and how to view and manage stored passwords,
  see <a href="using_priv_help.xhtml#using_the_password_manager">Using the
  Password Manager</a>.</p>

<h3 id="encrypting_versus_obscuring">Encrypting Versus Obscuring</h3>

<p>If you use Password Manager or Form Manager to save passwords and personal
  data, this sensitive information is stored on your computer in a file
  that&apos;s difficult, but not impossible, for an intruder to read. This way
  of storing information is sometimes described as <q>obscuring</q>. This
  is the default setting that applies to information stored by Password Manager
  or Form Manager.</p>

<p>For improved protection, you may choose to protect the file with encryption.
  Encryption makes it more difficult (but again, not impossible) for an
  unauthorized person to view your stored sensitive information.</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Use encryption when storing sensitive data</strong>: Select this
  checkbox to turn on encryption, or deselect it to turn off encryption.</li>
</ul>

<p>If you have not previously set a
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#master_password">master password</a>, you will be
  asked to create one. To do so, follow the instructions as they appear on your
  screen.</p>

<p>Using encryption versus obscuring for stored sensitive data is a tradeoff
  between improved security and convenience:</p>

<ul>
  <li>If you use encryption, you will need to enter a master password
    periodically, which can be inconvenient. (For information about controlling
    how often it is requested, see the discussion of the Master Password
    timeout at
    <a href="#master_passwords">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences - Master
    Passwords</a>.)</li>
  <li>If you use obscuring, you may not have to set a master password at all
    (unless you&apos;re using certificates for identification purposes), but it
    may be easier for a stranger who has access to your computer to steal your
    passwords.</li>
</ul>

<p>For more details, see
  <a href="using_priv_help.xhtml#encrypting_stored_sensitive_information">Encrypting
  Stored Sensitive Information</a>.</p>

<h2 id="password_manager">Password Manager</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use Password Manager dialog box to control
  your stored passwords. If you are not already viewing it, follow these
  steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Passwords. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>Click Manage Stored Passwords.</li>
</ol>

<p>Alternatively, open the Tools menu, choose Password manager, and then choose
  Manage Stored Passwords from the submenu.</p>

<p>The Password Manager has two tabs:</p>

<ol>
  <li><strong>Passwords Saved</strong>: Click this tab to view the list of
    sites for which Password Manager has saved your user name and
    password&mdash;that is, the sites for which you selected <q>Yes</q>
    in response to Password Manager&apos;s request to store logon
    information.

    <p>The second column shows the user name for each site. If the password is
      stored in encrypted form, <q>(encrypted)</q> appears after the user
      name.</p>

    <p>By default, stored passwords are not displayed.</p>

    <ul>
      <li>To see the list of stored passwords, click Show Passwords and confirm
        your choice.</li>
      <li>To hide the passwords, click Hide Passwords.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>If you remove an entry from the list, the stored user name and password
      will be discarded, and you will need to log in manually the next time you
      visit that site.</p>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Passwords Never Saved</strong>: Click this tab to view the list
    of sites for which you selected <q>Never for this site</q> in response
    to Password Manager&apos;s request to store logon information.

    <p>If a site is included on this list, you will always have to type in your
      user name and password manually when you log onto the site.</p>

    <p>If you remove an entry from this list, Password Manager will again ask
      you, the next time you log onto the site, whether to store your user name
      and password.</p>
  </li>
</ol>

<p>Regardless of which tab you are viewing, you can remove entries from the
  list as follows:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Remove</strong>: Select one or more entries that you want to
    remove, then click Remove.</li>
  <li><strong>Remove All</strong>: Click this button to remove all the entries
    listed in the tab you are viewing.</li>
</ul>

<p>For more information about the Password Manager, see <a href=
  "using_priv_help.xhtml#using_the_password_manager">Using the Password
  Manager</a>.</p>

<h2 id="master_passwords">Privacy &amp; Security Preferences - Master
  Passwords</h2>

<p>This section describes the Master Passwords preferences panel. If you are
  not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Master Passwords. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
</ol>

<p>A master password protects a security device, which is a software or
  hardware device that stores sensitive information associated with your
  identity, such as keys or certificates.</p>

<p>For example, the browser has a built-in Software Security Device, and you
  can also use external security devices, such as smart cards, if your computer
  is configured to use them.</p>

<p>The master password for the browser&apos;s built-in Software Security Device
  also protects stored sensitive information such as email passwords, website
  passwords, and other data stored by the Password Manager and Form
  Manager.</p>

<p>Each security device, whether it is software or hardware, has its own
  separate Master Password.</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Change Password</strong>: Click this button to set or change any
    of your master passwords. For information about using the Change Master
    Password dialog box that appears when you click this button, see
    <a href="#change_master_password">Change Master Password</a>.</li>
  <li>You can control how often the browser requests your master password:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>The first time it is needed</strong>: This setting
        (selected by default) causes the browser to request your master
        password only the first time it needs access to the private key
        database after launching. The browser will not request the master
        password again until after you exit and relaunch it. This setting
        provides the lowest level of protection.</li>
      <li><strong>Every time it is needed</strong>: This setting ensures that
        the browser will never access your saved personal information without
        first requesting your master password. This setting provides the
        highest level of protection.</li>
      <li><strong>If it has not been used for [__] minutes or longer</strong>:
        This setting causes the browser to request your master password if it
        needs to access your personal information and the specified interval
        has elapsed since the last time it did so.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Reset Master Password</strong>: Click this button to reset the
    master password for the Software Security Device. For more information,
    see <a href="#reset_master_password">Reset Master Password</a>.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="change_master_password">Change Master Password</h2>

<p>You must remember your old master password to change it with the Change
  Password button.</p>

<p>This section describes the Change Master Password dialog box. If you&apos;re
  not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Master Passwords. (If
    no subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>Click Change Password.</li>
</ol>

<p>A master password protects a security device, which is a software or
  hardware device that stores sensitive information associated with your
  identity, such as keys or certificates.</p>

<p>For example, the browser has a built-in Software Security Device, and you
  can also use external security devices, such as smart cards, if your computer
  is configured to use them.</p>

<p>The master password for the browser&apos;s built-in Software Security Device
  also protects your master key. Your master key is used to encrypt sensitive
  information such as email passwords, website passwords, and other data stored
  by the Password Manager and Form Manager.</p>

<p>You use the Change Master Password dialog box to provide the following
  information:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Security Device</strong>: Each security device requires a
    separate master password. For example, if you are using one or more smart
    cards to store some of your certificates, you should set a separate master
    password for each one. If more than one security device is available, a
    drop-down list at the top of the Set Master Password dialog box allows you
    to choose the device whose password you want to change.</li>
  <li><strong>Current password</strong>: If you are changing an existing master
    password, you must first type the current password. If you don&apos;t type
    the current password correctly, you will see the message <q>You did not
    enter the current correct Master Password</q> after you click OK. If this
    happens, you must retype your current password.</li>
  <li><strong>New password</strong>: Type your new password into this
    field.</li>
  <li><strong>New password (again)</strong>: Type your new password again. If
    you don&apos;t type it the second time exactly as you did the first time,
    the OK button remains inactive. If this happens, try typing the new
    password again.</li>
</ul>

<p>If someone uses your computer who knows or can guess your master password,
  that person may be able to access websites while pretending to be you. This
  can be dangerous&mdash;for example, if you manage your financial accounts
  over the Internet.</p>

<p>Therefore, it&apos;s important to select a master password that&apos;s
  difficult to guess. The <strong>password quality meter</strong> gives you a
  rough idea of the quality of your password as you type it based on factors
  such as length and the use of uppercase letters, lowercase letters, numbers,
  and symbols. It does not guarantee, however, that no one will be able to
  guess your password.</p>

<p>For further guidelines, see <a href="#choosing_a_good_password">Choosing
  a Good Password</a>.</p>

<p>It&apos;s also important to record your master password in a safe
  place&mdash;and <strong>not</strong> anywhere that&apos;s easily accessible
  to someone else. If you forget this password, you may not be able to access
  important information, such as websites that require passwords or
  certificates stored on your computer.</p>

<h2 id="master_password_timeout">Master Password Timeout</h2>

<p>After you first set a new master password, you will be asked to enter it
  only when the newly launched browser first needs it to access personal
  information, such as a user name and password, saved form data, or personal
  certificates.</p>

<p>You can control how often the browser requests your master password:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>The first time it is needed</strong>: This setting
    (selected by default) causes the browser to request your master password
    only the first time it needs access to the private key database after
    launching. The browser will not request the master password again until
    after you exit and relaunch it. This setting provides the lowest level
    of protection.</li>
  <li><strong>Every time it is needed</strong>: This setting ensures that
    the browser will never access your saved personal information without
    first requesting your master password. This setting provides the highest
    level of protection.</li>
  <li><strong>If it has not been used for [__] minutes or longer</strong>:
    This setting causes the browser to request your master password if it
    needs to access your personal information and the specified interval
    has elapsed since the last time it did so.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="reset_master_password">Reset Master Password</h2>

<p><strong>Warning</strong>: If you reset your master password, you will
  permanently erase all the encrypted web passwords, email passwords, and form
  data saved on your behalf by Password Manager and Form Manager. You will also
  lose all your personal certificates associated with the
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#software_security_device">Software Security
  Device</a>.</p>

<p>Note that encrypted passwords and form data will be lost only if you have
  turned on encryption for this stored information. For information about
  turning encryption on or off, see
  <a href="using_priv_help.xhtml#turning_encryption_on_and_off">Turning
  Encryption On and Off</a>.</p>

<p>To change your master password rather than resetting it, click the Change
  Password button in the Master Passwords preferences panel.</p>

<p>This section describes the Reset Master Password dialog box. If you&apos;re
  not already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click Master Passwords. (If
    no subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>Click Reset Password.</li>
</ol>

<p><strong>Warning</strong>: If you reset your master password, you will
  permanently erase all encrypted web passwords, email passwords, and form data
  saved on your behalf by Password Manager and Form Manager. You will also lose
  all your personal certificates associated with the
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#software_security_device">software security
  device</a>.</p>

<p>Encrypted passwords and form data will be lost only if you have turned on
  encryption for this stored information. For information about turning
  encryption on or off, see
  <a href="using_priv_help.xhtml#turning_encryption_on_and_off">Turning
  Encryption On and Off</a>.</p>

<p>If you remember your master password and decide to change it, you can do so
  without danger of losing any personal information. If you are viewing the
  Reset Master Password alert and you decide you want to change your password
  rather than resetting it, click Cancel to return to the Master Passwords
  preferences panel, then click Change Password. For details, see
  <a href="#change_master_password">Change Master Password</a>.</p>

<p>Resetting your master password is a last resort that you should use only if
  you are absolutely sure you&apos;ve forgotten it. The seriousness of the
  situation depends on how much personal data your forgotten master password
  protects.</p>

<p>Resetting your master password does not create a new password. Instead, it
  removes all the data your old master password protects. You will be asked to
  specify a new master password the next time the browser needs to store
  personal information.</p>

<p>After you reset your master password, you may also want to re-save personal
  information that you want to have prefilled in the future. For example, as
  you browse you may want Password Manager to save website and email passwords
  again.</p>

<p>You will also need to enter data by hand until Form Manager accumulates
  enough data to fill in forms automatically. In addition, any personal
  certificates associated with the software security device will be permanently
  erased and you will need to apply for new ones.</p>

<p><strong>Note for smart card users</strong>: Each smart card has its own
  master password. The master password for a smart card protects only the data
  on that smart card (such as personal certificates). You can normally change
  the master password for a smart card (assuming that you remember it), but you
  cannot reset it.</p>

<h2 id="choosing_a_good_password">Choosing a Good Password</h2>

<p>Choosing a good password will help in keeping your personal information
  safe and private. To improve the security of your password, follow some
  or all of these suggestions:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Special and punctuation characters (*!$+) mixed with letters and
    numbers.</li>
  <li>Mixed upper and lower-case letters&mdash;putting capitals in random
    locations throughout a password is effective.</li>
  <li>Nonsense words that aren&apos;t found in dictionaries but are easy to
    pronounce.</li>
  <li>Eight or more characters.</li>
</ul>

<p>You should avoid personal information that could be guessed. So the
  following common items should be avoided:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Personal or family names, your initials or birthdays.</li>
  <li>Your social security number.</li>
  <li>Names of pets or famous places.</li>
  <li>Phone numbers or addresses.</li>
  <li>Words from any kind of dictionary.</li>
  <li>Your username, login name or computer&apos;s name.</li>
  <li>Repetition of the same letter or symbol.</li>
  <li>Sequences of keyboard keys, such as <q>12345</q> or <q>qwerty</q>.</li>
  <li>Any minor modification of the above, such as appending a character to the
    end of your name or spelling backwards.</li>
</ul>

<p>A good way to choose a secure but easily remembered password is to use the
  first character of each word in a phrase. For instance, <q>StNh*nbsS</q>
  stands for <q>Surfing the Net has never been so Suite</q>; the asterisk in
  the middle is included for increased security. (Don&apos;t use this
  password!)</p>

<p>To further protect your personal data, you are advised to follow these
  simple rules:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Never give the password out to anyone.</li>
  <li>If someone has learnt your password, change it immediately.</li>
  <li>Every few months, change your password.</li>
  <li>Choose a password you can remember so you don&apos;t have to write it
    down.</li>
  <li>Avoid letting people observe you typing your password.</li>
</ul>

<p>&copyright.string;</p>

</body>
</html>
