<html>
<head>
<title>Privacy and Security Settings</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://help/locale/content_style.css" type="text/css">

</head>

<body bgcolor="white">

<a NAME="privsec_help_first"></a>
<h1>Privacy and Security Settings </h1>

<p>This section describes how to modify the Privacy and Security preferences. To access them, follow these steps:
<ol>
   <li>Open the Edit menu and choose Preferences.
   <li>Click the Privacy and Security category. If no subcategories are visible, click its triangle to expand the list, then click the name for the preferences you want to view or change. 
</ol>

<p>For help with a panel's settings, click the Help button at the bottom of that panel.

<p>For help with the top-level Privacy and Security panel, keep reading. 

<a NAME="Reset_Settings"></a>
<h3>Reset Preferences</h3>

<p>To set all the Privacy and Security settings back to their default values, click Reset Preferences.

<a NAME="Manage_Certificates"></a>
<h3>Manage Certificates</h3>

<p>Certificates are the digital equivalent of ID cards--they help other people 
identify you, and they help you identify other people, web sites, and organizations.

<p>To examine or configure the certificates you have on file, click Manage Certificates.

<a NAME="Manage_Security_Devices"></a>
<h3>Manage Security Devices</h3>

<p>A security device is a hardware or software device that stores your certificates and keys. 
For example, a smart card is a security device. Netscape 6 has its own built-in software 
security device, and you can use additional security devices, such as smart cards, at the same time. 

<p>To examine or configure your security devices, click Manage Security Devices.

<hr>
<p><i>3/22/2001</i></p>
<p>Copyright &copy; 1994-2001 Netscape Communications Corporation.</p>

</body>
</html>



