<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
  %brandDTD;
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>SSL Settings</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://help/locale/helpFileLayout.css"
  type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<h1 id="ssl_settings">SSL Settings</h1>

<p>This section describes how to set your SSL preferences and ciphers.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
<ul>
  <li><a href="#privacy_and_security_preferences_ssl">Privacy &amp; Security
    Preferences - SSL</a></li>
  <li><a href="#edit_ciphers">Edit Ciphers</a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2 id="privacy_and_security_preferences_ssl">Privacy &amp; Security
  Preferences - SSL</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the SSL preferences panel. If you are not
  already viewing the panel, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click SSL. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
</ol>

<h3 id="ssl_protocol_versions">SSL Protocol Versions</h3>

<p>The Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol defines rules governing mutual
  authentication between a web site and browser software and the encryption of
  information that flows between them. The Transport Layer Security (TLS)
  protocol is an IETF standard based on SSL. TLS 1.0 can be thought of as SSL
  3.1.</p>

<p>You should normally leave these three checkboxes selected to ensure that
  both older and newer web servers can work with the browser:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Enable SSL version 2:</strong> Allows older web servers to work
    with the browser.</li>
  <li><strong>Enable SSL version 3:</strong> Allows newer web servers to work
    with the browser.</li>
  <li><strong>Enable TLS:</strong> Allows web servers that support TLS to take
    advantage of it.</li>
</ul>

<p>To turn individual ciphers on or off, click the Edit Ciphers button:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Edit Ciphers:</strong> Don&apos;t attempt to edit ciphers individually
    unless you know exactly what you are doing and have cleared the changes
    with your system administrator. For more information, see
    <a href="#cipher_help">Edit Ciphers</a>.</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Important note regarding TLS:</strong> Some servers that do not
  implement SSL correctly cannot negotiate the SSL handshake with client
  software (such as the browser) that supports TLS. Such servers are known as
  <q>TLS intolerant</q>.</p>

<p>When the Enable TLS option in the SSL preferences panel is selected, the
  browser attempts to use the TLS protocol when making secure connections with
  a server. If that connection fails because the server is TLS intolerant, the
  browser will fall back to using SSL 3.0.</p>

<h3 id="ssl_warnings">SSL Warnings</h3>

<p>It&apos;s easy to tell when the web site you are viewing is using an encrypted
  connection. If the connection is encrypted, the lock icon in the lower-right
  corner of the Navigator window is locked. If the connection is not encrypted,
  the lock icon is unlocked.</p>

<p>If you want additional warnings, you can select one or more of the warning
  checkboxes in the SSL preferences panel. Some people find these warnings
  annoying.</p>

<p>To activate any of these Navigator warnings, select the corresponding
  checkbox:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Loading a page that supports encryption:</strong> Select this
    warning if you want to be reminded whenever you are loading a page that
    supports encryption.</li>
  <li><strong>Loading a page that uses low-grade encryption:</strong> Select
    this warning if you want to be reminded whenever you are loading a page
    that supports low-grade encryption. (Low-grade encryption is the weakest
    encryption available, using 40-bit keys.)</li>
  <li><strong>Leaving a page that supports encryption:</strong> Select this
    warning if you want to be reminded whenever you are leaving a page that
    supports encryption for one that does not.</li>
  <li><strong>Sending form data from an unencrypted page to an unencrypted
    page:</strong> Select this warning if you want to be reminded whenever you
    are submitting data over an unencrypted connection. If you send unencrypted
    information over the Internet, it can easily be intercepted by other
    people.</li>
  <li><strong>Viewing a page with an encrypted/unencrypted mix:</strong>
    Select this warning if you want to be alerted whenever you are viewing a
    page that includes any information that&apos;s not encrypted.</li>
</ul>

<p>For short definitions, click
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#authentication">authentication</a>,
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#encryption">encryption</a>, or
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#certificate">certificate</a>.</p>

<h2 id="edit_ciphers">Edit Ciphers</h2>

<p>This section describes how to use the Edit Ciphers dialog box. If you&apos;re not
  already viewing it, follow these steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the <span class="mac">&brandShortName;</span>
    <span class="noMac">Edit</span> menu and choose Preferences.</li>
  <li>Under the Privacy &amp; Security category, click SSL. (If no
    subcategories are visible, double-click Privacy &amp; Security to expand
    the list.)</li>
  <li>Click the Edit Ciphers button.</li>
</ol>

<p>The Edit Ciphers dialog box allows you to select or deselect ciphers, or
  <a href="glossary.xhtml#cryptographic_algorithm">cryptographic
  algorithms</a>. Consult your system administrator before changing any of
  these settings.</p>

<p>Each checkbox corresponds to a cipher suite, or set of cryptographic
  algorithms. To view information about a cipher suite, click the 
  Details button besides its name.</p>

<p>The following information is displayed for the selected cipher suite:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Cypher:</strong> Encryption module name.</li>
  <li><strong>Encryption algorithm:</strong> Used for bulk encryption and 
    decryption.</li>
  <li><strong>Authentication Algorithm:</strong> Used to determine the server 
    or client&apos;s identity.</li>
  <li><strong>Effective Key Algorithm:</strong> Governs the way in which the 
    server and client determine the symmetric keys they will both use during an 
    SSL session.</li>
  <li><strong>Key Size:</strong> The size of the keys used with this cipher 
    suite. (Encryption strength depends on both encryption algorithm and key 
    size.)</li>
  <li><strong>MAC Algorithm:</strong> Used for tamper detection and data 
    verification; sometimes called message digest or hash algorithm.</li>
  <li><strong>Other Attributes:</strong> These can include the following:
    <ul>
      <li><strong>FIPS</strong> Complies with Federal Information Processing 
        Standards Publications (FIPS PUBS) 140-1. Many products sold to the US 
        government must comply with one or more FIPS standards.</li>
      <li><strong>IsExportable</strong> Cipher suite was legally exportable 
        under regulations published by the U.S. Department of Commerce that 
        previously limited the encryption strength of exported products. Those 
        regulations have since been loosened.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>For more information about ciphers and encryption, see the following online
  documents:</p>

<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="http://developer.netscape.com/docs/manuals/security/pkin/index.htm"
    target="_blank">Introduction to Public-Key Cryptography</a></li>
  <li>
    <a href="http://developer.netscape.com/docs/manuals/security/sslin/index.htm"
    target="_blank">Introduction to SSL</a></li>
  <li>
    <a href=
    "http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/pki/nss/nss-3.4/nss-3.4-algorithms.html"
    target="_blank">Encryption Technologies Available in NSS 3.4</a>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Copyright &copy; 2003-2004 The Mozilla Foundation.</p>

</body>
</html>
