{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Optima-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Optima-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red4\green16\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12040\viewh15180\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Camino Read Me\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.caminobrowser.org/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 http://www.caminobrowser.org/}}
\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f2 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 Thank you for downloading Camino! Please take a moment to read this document as well as the accompanying Release Notes to find out what\'d5s new and to learn about known issues.
\f0\b \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\fs36 \cf0 Installation
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
To install Camino, simply drag the Camino icon onto your hard disk. We recommend that you copy it to the 
\f3\fs20 Applications
\f1\fs24  folder. You can then Eject the disk image. If you like, you can drag Camino to your Dock to have it easily accessible at all times.\
\
After installation, you may want to import bookmarks from another browser. While using Camino, select \'d2Import Bookmarks\'d3 from the \'d2File\'d3 menu. In the resulting dialog, choose the web browser to import bookmarks from, and click \'d2Import\'d3. If your web browser is not listed, you can import any readable bookmarks file using the \'d2Select a file\'d3 option and choosing the bookmarks file you wish to import.\
\

\f0\b\fs36 Where information is kept on disk
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
When you first run Camino, it makes a folder in 
\f3\fs20 ~/Library/Application Support
\f1\fs24  (where 
\f3\fs20 ~
\f1\fs24  is your Home directory) called \'d2Camino\'d3. This folder contains your \'d3profile\'d3 information (bookmarks, cookies, etc.).\
\
There are two files in your profile that you might need to know about. 
\f3\fs20 bookmarks.plist
\f1\fs24  contains your bookmarks. You might want to make copies of this file regularly if your bookmarks contain valuable information. 
\f3\fs20 prefs.js
\f1\fs24  contains most of the application preferences. Not all options are exposed in the preferences window, so you might see advice to \'d2edit your prefs file.\'d3 To do that, drag 
\f3\fs20 prefs.js
\f1\fs24  onto your favorite editor, make whatever changes are necessary, and save. Make sure the file is saved in plain text format.\
\
Previous versions of Camino used a folder in 
\f3\fs20 ~/Library/Application Support/Chimera
\f1\fs24  for the profile. On first run, your profile will be copied to the new location and upgraded automatically. The old profile remains unchanged so you can revert to older versions of Camino if you desire. This version no longer uses the \'d2salted\'d3 directory inside the profile.\
\
Camino stores its cache in 
\f3\fs20 ~/Library/Caches
\f1\fs24 , and settings related to window positioning and toolbar customizations in 
\f3\fs20 ~/Library/Preferences/org.mozilla.camino.plist
\f1\fs24 .\
\

\f0\b\fs36 Uninstall
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
To get rid of all the files related to Camino, do the following:\
\
   1. Drag the Camino icon to the trash\
   2. Drag the 
\f3\fs20 ~/Library/Application Support/Camino
\f1\fs24  folder to the trash\
   3. Drag the 
\f3\fs20 ~/Library/Caches/Camino
\f1\fs24  folder to the trash\
   4. Drag the 
\f3\fs20 ~/Library/Preferences/org.mozilla.camino.plist
\f1\fs24  file to the trash\
\

\f0\b\fs36 Changes and known issues in this version\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
See the accompanying \'d2Release Notes\'d3 file for information about what has changed in this version of Camino and for a list of known issues.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 More information, and feedback\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
To find out more about Camino, see the project website at:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf2 	{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.caminobrowser.org/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.caminobrowser.org/}}\cf0 \
\
This site contains information about how to give feedback on Camino, has links that allow you to query for known bugs, see what\'d5s going on with current development, and learn how to build it yourself from source.\
}