.. -*- Mode: rst; fill-column: 100; -*-

======================================
 MMA Mobile Marketing Automation
======================================

We want to engage with users more. MMA is the project for this purpose. When a user performs a certain
UI action, he/she will see a prompt and have a chance to  interact with it. For example, if a user uses
Firefox 10 times a week, but Firefox is not his default browser, we'll prompt the user the next time
when he launchers our app, and guide him to set us as default browser.

Mozilla is using a third party framework called "Leanplum" in order to achieve above goal for
Android 56 release. Leanplum is a San Francisco company, founded in 2012. We put their SDK in
our codebase and sync upstream when there's a major update. Please find it in ``mobile/android/thirdparty/com/leanplum``.
The SDK is documented at https://www.leanplum.com/docs/android/

There are three major component in Leanplum SDK.
1. Events : Triggers when users perform certain actions. An event will normally trigger a prompt message.
2. Deep Links : Actions that users can perform to interact with the prompt message.
3. Messages :  Campaigns that we want to engage with users. Messages is a combination of an Event and a Deep Link.


Data collection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Who will have Leanplum enabled?
======================================================

* We use Switchboard to filter users to have Leanplum enabled. Currently, for users in the USA
  and whose locale is set to English, 10% of that users will have Leanplum enabled.
* If the user has "Health Report" setting enabled.
* If above two are true, when the app starts, and switchboard configure arrived, Fennec will send the
  triggers and message interaction history to Leanplum server when available.


Where does data sent to the Leanplum backend go?
==============================================

The Leanplum SDK is hard-coded to send data to the endpoint https://www.leanplum.com.  The endpoint is
defined by ``com.leanplum.internal.Constants.API_HOST_NAME`` at
https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/rev/c49a70b53f67dd5550eec8a08793805f2aca8d42/mobile/android/thirdparty/com/leanplum/internal/Constants.java#32.

The user is identified by Leanplum using a random UUID generated by Fennec when Leanplum is initialized for the first time.
This unique identifier is only used by Leanplum and can't be tracked back to any Firefox users.


What data is collected and sent to the Leanplum backend?
======================================================

The Leanplum SDK collects and sends two messages to the Leanplum backend.  The messages have the
following parameters::

  // Sent every time when an event is triggered
  "action" -> "track"                   // track: an event is tracked.
  "event" -> "Launch"                   // Used when an event is triggered. e.g. E_Saved_Bookmark.
  "info" -> ""                          // Used when an event is triggered. Basic context associated with the event.
  "value" -> 0.0                        // Used when an event is triggered. Value of that event.
  "messageId" -> 5111602214338560       // Used when an event is triggered. The ID of the message.

  // Sent when the app starts
  "action" -> "start"                   // start: Leanplum SDK starts. heartbeat
  "userAttributes" -> "{                // A set of key-value pairs used to describe the user.
    "Focus Installed" -> true           // If Focus for Android is installed.
    "Klar Installed" -> true            // If Klar for Android is installed.
    "Signed In Sync" -> true            // If the user has signed in to Mozilla account.
    "Default Browser" -> true           // If the user has set Fennec as default browser.
  }
  "appId" -> "app_6Ao...."              // Leanplum App ID.
  "clientKey" -> "dev_srwDUNZR...."     // Leanplum client access key.
  "systemName" -> "Android OS"          // Fixed String in SDK.
  "locale" -> "zh_TW"                   // System Locale.
  "timezone" -> "Asia/Taipei"           // System Timezone.
  "versionName" -> "55.0a1"             // Fennec version.
  "systemVersion" -> "7.1.2"            // System version.
  "deviceModel" -> "Google Pixel"       // System device model.
  "timezoneOffsetSeconds" -> "28800"    // User timezone offset with PST.
  "deviceName" -> "Google Pixel"        // System device name.
  "region" -> "(detect)"                // Not used. We strip play-SERVICES-location so this is will be the default stub value in Leanplum SDK.
  "city" -> "(detect)"                  // Same as above.
  "country" -> "(detect)"               // Same as above.
  "location" -> "(detect)"              // Same as above.
  "newsfeedMessages" -> " size = 0"     // Not used. New Leanplum Inbox message(Leanplum feature) count.
  "includeDefaults" -> "false"          // Not used. Always false.

  // Other life cycle actions
  "action" -> "heartbeat"               // heartbeat: every 15 minutes when app is in the foreground
                                        // pauseSession: when app goes to background
                                        // resumeSession: when app goes to foreground

  // Sent for every action
  "userId" -> "b13b3c239d01aa7c"        // Set by Fennec, we use random uuid so users are anonymous to Leanplum.
  "deviceId" -> "b13b3c239d01aa7c"      // Same as above.
  "sdkVersion" -> "2.2.2-SNAPSHOT"      // Leanplum SDK version.
  "devMode" -> "true"                   // If the SDK is in developer mode. For official builds, it's false.
  "time" -> "1.497595093902E9"          // System time in second.
  "token" -> "nksZ5pa0R5iegC7wj...."    // Token come from Leanplum backend.

Notes on what data is collected
-------------------------------

User Identifier:
Since Device ID is a random UUID, Leanplum can't map the device to any know Client ID in Fennec nor Advertising ID.

Events:
Most of the Leanplum events can be mapped to a single combination of Telemetry event (Event+Method+Extra).
Some events are not collected in Mozilla Telemetry. This will be addressed separately in each campaign review.
There are three elements that are used for each event. They are: event name, value(default: 0.0), and info(default: "").
Default value for event value is 0.0. Default value for event info is empty string.

List of current Events related data that is sent:
* When a page could be reader mode and is visible to the user
{
  "event" : "E_Reader_Available"
}
* Download videos or any other media
{
  "event" : "E_Download_Media_Saved_Image"
}
* Save password and login from door hanger
{
  "event" : "E_Saved_Login_And_Password"
}
* Save a bookmark from Fennec menu
{
  "event" : "E_Saved_Bookmark"
}
* Load the bookmark from home panel
{
  "event" : "E_Opened_Bookmark"
}
* Interact with search url area
{
  "event" : "E_Interact_With_Search_URL_Area"
}
* When a screenshot is taken
{
  "event" : "E_Screenshot"
}
* Open a new tab
{
  "event" : "E_Opened_New_Tab"
}

Deep Links:
Deep links are actions that can point Fennec to open certain pages or load features such as `show bookmark list` or
`open a SUMO page`. When users see a prompt Leanplum message, they can click the button(s) on it. These buttons can
trigger the following deep links
* Link to Set Default Browser settings (firefox://default_browser)
* Link to specific Add-on page (http://link_to_the_add_on_page)
* Link to sync signup/sign in (firefox://sign_up)
* Link to default search engine settings (firefox://preferences_search)
* Link to “Save as PDF” feature (firefox://save_as_pdf)
* Take user directly to a Sign up for a newsletter (http://link_to_newsletter_page)
* Link to bookmark list (firefox://bookmark_list)
* Link to history list (firefox://history_list)
* Link to main preferences (firefox://preferences)
* Link to privacy preferences (firefox://preferences_privacy)
* Link to notifications preferences (firefox://preferences_notifications)
* Link to accessibility preferences (firefox://preferences_accessibility)
* Link to general setting (firefox://preferences_general)
* Link to home page setting (firefox://preferences_home)

Messages :
Messages are in-app prompts to the user from Leanplum. The interaction of that prompt will be kept and sent to Leanplum backend (such
as "Accept" and "Show"). A messages is a combination of an Event and a Deep Link. The combinations are downloaded from Leanplum
when Leanplum SDK is initialized. When the criteria is met (set in Leanplum backend, could be when an event happens a certain number of times,
and/or targeting certain user attribute ), a prompt message will show up. And there may be buttons for users to click. Those clicks
may trigger deep links.

The list of current messages for Android can be found here: https://wiki.mozilla.org/Leanplum_Contextual_Hints#Android

Technical notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Build flags controlling the Leanplum SDK integration
==================================================

To test this locally, add lines like:

export MOZ_ANDROID_MMA=1
ac_add_options --with-leanplum-sdk-keyfile=/path/to/leanplum-sdk-developer.token

MOZ_ANDROID_MMA depends on MOZ_NATIVE_DEVICES and MOZ_ANDROID_GCM.
Since Leanplum requires Google Play Services library, those flags are a proxy for it, and enable respectively.

We want to enable MOZ_ANDROID_MMA in Nightly, but only for
MOZILLA_OFFICIAL builds.  Since MOZILLA_OFFICIAL is still defined in
old-configure.in, we can't integrate it in
mobile/android/moz.configure, and therefore we enable using the
automation mozconfigs.

Technical notes on the Leanplum SDK integration
=============================================

Just like Adjust, MmaDelegate uses mmaInterface to inject the MmaLeanplumImp and MmaStubImp.
Constants used by Leanplum is in MmaConstants. Services in AndroidManifest are in
``mobile/android/base/MmaAndroidManifest_services.xml.in`` which is also injected by build flag
MOZ_ANDROID_MMA.

Notes and links
===============

.. _Leanplum web page: http://leanplum.com/
.. _github repository: https://github.com/Leanplum/Leanplum-Android-SDK
