netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.perfNotice1 = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.perfNotice1
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.perfNotice2 = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.perfNotice2
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.perfNotice3 = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.perfNotice3
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.reloadNotice1 = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.reloadNotice1
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.reloadNotice2 = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.reloadNotice2
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.reloadNotice3 = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.reloadNotice3
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.status3 = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.toolbar.status3
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.method = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.toolbar.method
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.file = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.toolbar.file
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.domain = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.toolbar.domain
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.cause = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.toolbar.cause
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.type = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.toolbar.type
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.transferred = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.toolbar.transferred
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.size = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.toolbar.size
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.waterfall = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.toolbar.waterfall
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.tab.headers = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.tab.headers
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.tab.cookies = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.tab.cookies
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.tab.params = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.tab.params
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.tab.response = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.tab.response
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.tab.timings = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.tab.timings
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.tab.security = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.tab.security
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.all = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterAll
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.html = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterHTML
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.css = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterCSS
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.js = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterJS
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.xhr = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterXHR
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.fonts = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterFonts
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.images = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterImages
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.media = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterMedia
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.flash = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterFlash
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.ws = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterWS
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filter.other = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterOther
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.filterFreetext.label = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.filterFreetext.label
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.clear = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.clear
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.toolbar.perf = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.footer.perf
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.panesButton.tooltip = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.panesButton.tooltip
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.url = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.url
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.method = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.method
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.address = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.address
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.status = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.status
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.version = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.version
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.editAndResend = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.editAndResend
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.rawHeaders = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.rawHeaders
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.rawHeaders.requestHeaders = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.rawHeaders.requestHeaders
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.rawHeaders.responseHeaders = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.rawHeaders.responseHeaders
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.summary.size = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.size
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.response.name = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.response.name
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.response.dimensions = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.response.dimensions
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.response.mime = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.response.mime
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.timings.blocked = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.timings.blocked
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.timings.dns = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.timings.dns
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.timings.connect = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.timings.connect
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.timings.send = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.timings.send
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.timings.wait = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.timings.wait
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.timings.receive = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.timings.receive
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.security.warning.cipher = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.security.warning.cipher
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.security.error = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.security.error
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.security.protocolVersion = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.security.protocolVersion
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.security.cipherSuite = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.security.cipherSuite
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.security.hsts = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.security.hsts
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.security.hpkp = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.security.hpkp
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.security.connection = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.security.connection
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.security.certificate = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.security.certificate
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyUrl = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyUrl
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyUrl.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyUrl.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyUrlParams = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyUrlParams
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyUrlParams.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyUrlParams.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyPostData = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyPostData
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyPostData.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyPostData.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyAsCurl = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyAsCurl
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyAsCurl.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyAsCurl.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyRequestHeaders = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyRequestHeaders
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyRequestHeaders.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyRequestHeaders.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyResponseHeaders = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyResponseHeaders
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyResponseHeaders.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyResponseHeaders.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyResponse = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyResponse
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyResponse.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyResponse.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyImageAsDataUri = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyImageAsDataUri
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyImageAsDataUri.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyImageAsDataUri.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyAllAsHar = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyAllAsHar
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.copyAllAsHar.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.copyAllAsHar.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.saveAllAsHar = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.saveAllAsHar
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.saveAllAsHar.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.saveAllAsHar.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.editAndResend = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.editAndResend
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.editAndResend.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.summary.editAndResend.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.newTab = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.newTab
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.newTab.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.newTab.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.perfTools = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.perfTools
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.context.perfTools.accesskey = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.context.perfTools.accesskey
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.custom.newRequest = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.custom.newRequest
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.custom.query = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.custom.query
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.custom.headers = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.custom.headers
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.custom.postData = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.custom.postData
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.custom.send = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.custom.send
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.custom.cancel = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.custom.cancel
netmonitor.properties:netmonitor.backButton = netmonitor.dtd:netmonitorUI.backButton
