<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY % htmlDTD
    PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
  %htmlDTD;
  <!ENTITY % globalDTD
    SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/global.dtd">
  %globalDTD;
  <!ENTITY % certerrorDTD
    SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/aboutCertError.dtd">
  %certerrorDTD;
]>

<!-- This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
   - License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
   - file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/. -->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>&certerror.pagetitle;</title>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width; user-scalable=false" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://global/skin/netError.css" type="text/css" media="all" />
    <!-- This page currently uses the same favicon as neterror.xhtml.
         If the location of the favicon is changed for both pages, the
         FAVICON_ERRORPAGE_URL symbol in toolkit/components/places/src/nsFaviconService.h
         should be updated. If this page starts using a different favicon
         than neterrorm nsFaviconService->SetAndLoadFaviconForPage
         should be updated to ignore this one as well. -->
    <link rel="icon" type="image/png" id="favicon" sizes="64x64" href="chrome://browser/skin/images/certerror-warning.png"/>

    <script type="application/javascript"><![CDATA[
      // Error url MUST be formatted like this:
      //   about:certerror?e=error&u=url&d=desc

      // Note that this file uses document.documentURI to get
      // the URL (with the format from above). This is because
      // document.location.href gets the current URI off the docshell,
      // which is the URL displayed in the location bar, i.e.
      // the URI that the user attempted to load.

      function getCSSClass() {
        var url = document.documentURI;
        var matches = url.match(/s\=([^&]+)\&/);
        // s is optional, if no match just return nothing
        if (!matches || matches.length < 2)
          return "";

        // parenthetical match is the second entry
        return decodeURIComponent(matches[1]);
      }

      function getDescription() {
        var url = document.documentURI;
        var desc = url.search(/d\=/);

        // desc == -1 if not found; if so, return an empty string
        // instead of what would turn out to be portions of the URI
        if (desc == -1)
          return "";

        return decodeURIComponent(url.slice(desc + 2));
      }

      function initPage() {
        // Replace the "#1" string in the intro with the hostname.  Trickier
        // than it might seem since we want to preserve the <b> tags, but
        // not allow for any injection by just using innerHTML.  Instead,
        // just find the right target text node.
        var intro = document.getElementById("introContentP1");
        function replaceWithHost(node) {
          if (node.textContent == "#1")
            node.textContent = location.host;
          else
            for (var i = 0; i < node.childNodes.length; i++)
              replaceWithHost(node.childNodes[i]);
        }
  replaceWithHost(intro);

        if (getCSSClass() == "expertBadCert") {
          toggle("technicalContent");
          toggle("expertContent");
        }

        // Disallow overrides if this is a Strict-Transport-Security
        // host and the cert is bad (STS Spec section 7.3) or if the
        // certerror is in a frame (bug 633691).
        if (getCSSClass() == "badStsCert" || window != top)
          document.getElementById("expertContent").setAttribute("hidden", "true");

        var tech = document.getElementById("technicalContentText");
        if (tech)
          tech.textContent = getDescription();

        addDomainErrorLinks();
      }

      /* Try to preserve the links contained in the error description, like
         the error code.

         Also, in the case of SSL error pages about domain mismatch, see if
         we can hyperlink the user to the correct site.  We don't want
         to do this generically since it allows MitM attacks to redirect
         users to a site under attacker control, but in certain cases
         it is safe (and helpful!) to do so.  Bug 402210
      */
      function addDomainErrorLinks() {
        // Rather than textContent, we need to treat description as HTML
        var sd = document.getElementById("technicalContentText");
        if (sd) {
          var desc = getDescription();

          // sanitize description text - see bug 441169

          // First, find the index of the <a> tags we care about, being
          // careful not to use an over-greedy regex.
          var codeRe = /<a id="errorCode" title="([^"]+)">/;
          var codeResult = codeRe.exec(desc);
          var domainRe = /<a id="cert_domain_link" title="([^"]+)">/;
          var domainResult = domainRe.exec(desc);

          // The order of these links in the description is fixed in
          // TransportSecurityInfo.cpp:formatOverridableCertErrorMessage.
          var firstResult = domainResult;
          if (!domainResult)
            firstResult = codeResult;
          if (!firstResult)
            return;

          // Remove sd's existing children
          sd.textContent = "";

          // Everything up to the first link should be text content.
          sd.appendChild(document.createTextNode(desc.slice(0, firstResult.index)));

          // Now create the actual links.
          if (domainResult) {
            createLink(sd, "cert_domain_link", domainResult[1]);
            // Append text for anything between the two links.
            sd.appendChild(document.createTextNode(desc.slice(desc.indexOf("</a>") + "</a>".length, codeResult.index)));
          }
          createLink(sd, "errorCode", codeResult[1]);

          // Finally, append text for anything after the last closing </a>.
          sd.appendChild(document.createTextNode(desc.slice(desc.lastIndexOf("</a>") + "</a>".length)));
        }

        // Then initialize the cert domain link.
        var link = document.getElementById("cert_domain_link");
        if (!link)
          return;

        var okHost = link.getAttribute("title");
        var thisHost = document.location.hostname;
        var proto = document.location.protocol;

        // If okHost is a wildcard domain ("*.example.com") let's
        // use "www" instead.  "*.example.com" isn't going to
        // get anyone anywhere useful. bug 432491
        okHost = okHost.replace(/^\*\./, "www.");

        /* case #1:
         * example.com uses an invalid security certificate.
         *
         * The certificate is only valid for www.example.com
         *
         * Make sure to include the "." ahead of thisHost so that
         * a MitM attack on paypal.com doesn't hyperlink to "notpaypal.com"
         *
         * We'd normally just use a RegExp here except that we lack a
         * library function to escape them properly (bug 248062), and
         * domain names are famous for having '.' characters in them,
         * which would allow spurious and possibly hostile matches.
         */
        if (okHost.endsWith("." + thisHost))
          link.href = proto + okHost;

        /* case #2:
         * browser.garage.maemo.org uses an invalid security certificate.
         *
         * The certificate is only valid for garage.maemo.org
         */
        if (thisHost.endsWith("." + okHost))
          link.href = proto + okHost;

        // If we set a link, meaning there's something helpful for
        // the user here, expand the section by default
        if (link.href && getCSSClass() != "expertBadCert")
          toggle("technicalContent");
      }

      function createLink(el, id, text) {
        var anchorEl = document.createElement("a");
        anchorEl.setAttribute("id", id);
        anchorEl.setAttribute("title", text);
        anchorEl.appendChild(document.createTextNode(text));
        el.appendChild(anchorEl);
      }

      function toggle(id) {
        var el = document.getElementById(id);
        if (el.hasAttribute("collapsed"))
          el.removeAttribute("collapsed");
        else
          el.setAttribute("collapsed", true);
      }
    ]]></script>
  </head>

  <body id="errorPage" class="certerror" dir="&locale.dir;">

    <!-- PAGE CONTAINER (for styling purposes only) -->
    <div id="errorPageContainer">

      <!-- Error Title -->
      <div id="errorTitle">
        <h1 class="errorTitleText">&certerror.longpagetitle;</h1>
      </div>

      <!-- LONG CONTENT (the section most likely to require scrolling) -->
      <div id="errorLongContent">
        <div id="introContent">
          <p id="introContentP1">&certerror.introPara1;</p>
        </div>

        <div id="whatShouldIDoContent">
          <h2>&certerror.whatShouldIDo.heading;</h2>
          <div id="whatShouldIDoContentText">
            <p>&certerror.whatShouldIDo.content;</p>
            <button id="getMeOutOfHereButton">&certerror.getMeOutOfHere.label;</button>
          </div>
        </div>

        <!-- The following sections can be unhidden by default by setting the
             "browser.xul.error_pages.expert_bad_cert" pref to true -->
        <div id="technicalContent" collapsed="true">
          <h2 class="expander" onclick="toggle('technicalContent');" id="technicalContentHeading">&certerror.technical.heading;</h2>
          <p id="technicalContentText"/>
        </div>

        <div id="expertContent" collapsed="true">
          <h2 class="expander" onclick="toggle('expertContent');" id="expertContentHeading">&certerror.expert.heading;</h2>
          <div>
            <p>&certerror.expert.content;</p>
            <p>&certerror.expert.contentPara2;</p>
            <button id="temporaryExceptionButton">&certerror.addTemporaryException.label;</button>
            <button id="permanentExceptionButton">&certerror.addPermanentException.label;</button>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>

    <!--
    - Note: It is important to run the script this way, instead of using
    - an onload handler. This is because error pages are loaded as
    - LOAD_BACKGROUND, which means that onload handlers will not be executed.
    -->
    <script type="application/javascript">initPage();</script>

  </body>
</html>
