tools/docs/docs/contribute/how_to_contribute_firefox.rst, before:

How to contribute to Firefox
============================

The goal of this doc is to have a place where all simple commands
are listed from start to end.

This aims to be a simple tutorial for lazy copy and paste.

Each section in this tutorial links to more detailed documentation on the topic.

Clone the sources
-----------------

You can use either mercurial or git. Mercurial is the canonical version control
system.

.. code-block:: shell

    $ hg clone https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/

For git, see the `git cinnabar documentation <https://github.com/glandium/git-cinnabar/wiki/Mozilla:-A-git-workflow-for-Gecko-development>`__

The clone should be around 30 minutes (depending on your connection) and
the repository should be less than 5GB (~ 20GB after the build).

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Source_Code/Mercurial>`__

Install dependencies
--------------------

Firefox provides a mechanism to install all dependencies; in the source tree:

.. code-block:: shell

     $ ./mach bootstrap

The default options are recommended.
Select "`Artifact Mode <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Artifact_builds>`__" if you are not planning to write C++ or Rust code.

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Linux_Prerequisites>`__

Windows dependencies
--------------------

#. You need 64-bit version of Windows 7 or later.
#. Download and install `Visual Studio. <https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/>`__
#. Finally download the `MozillaBuild Package. <https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/mozilla/libraries/win32/MozillaBuildSetup-Latest.exe>`__ Installation directory should be:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ c:\mozilla-build\

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Windows_Prerequisites>`__


To build & run
--------------

Once all the dependencies have been installed, run:

.. code-block:: shell

     $ ./mach build

which will check for dependencies and start the build.
This will take a while; a few minutes to a few hours depending on your hardware.

To run it:

.. code-block:: shell

     $ ./mach run

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Simple_Firefox_build/Linux_and_MacOS_build_preparation>`__


To write a patch
----------------

Make the changes you need in the code base.

Then:

.. code-block:: shell

    # Mercurial
    $ hg commit

    # Git
    $ git commit

The commit message should look like:

.. code-block::

    Bug xxxx - Short description of your change. r?reviewer

    Optionally, a longer description of the change.

To find a reviewer, the easiest way is to do ``hg log <modified-file>`` (or
``git log <modified-file>``, if you're using git) on the relevant files, and
look who usually is reviewing the actual changes (ie not reformat, renaming
of variables, etc).

To visualize your patch in the repository, run:

.. code-block:: shell

    # Mercurial
    $ hg wip

    # Git
    $ git show


`More information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Mercurial>`__


To test a change locally
------------------------

To run the tests, use mach test with the path. However, it isn’t
always easy to parse the results.

.. code-block:: shell

    $ ./mach test dom/serviceworkers

`More information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/QA/Automated_testing>`__

To test a change remotely
-------------------------

Running all the tests for Firefox takes a very long time and requires multiple
operating systems with various configurations. To build Firefox and run its
tests on continuous integration servers (CI), two commands are available:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ ./mach try chooser

To select jobs running a fuzzy search:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ ./mach try fuzzy

From Treeherder, it is also possible to attach new jobs. As every review has
a try CI run associated, it makes this work easier. See :ref:`attach-job-review` for
more information.

.. note::

    This requires `level 1 commit access <https://www.mozilla.org/about/governance/policies/commit/access-policy/>`__.

    You can ask your reviewer to submit the patch for you if you don't have that
    level of access.

`More information <https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/tools/try/index.html>`__


To submit a patch
-----------------

To submit a patch for review, we use a tool called `moz-phab <https://moz-conduit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/phabricator-user.html#using-moz-phab>`__.

.. code-block:: shell

     $ moz-phab

It will publish all the currently applied patches to Phabricator and inform the reviewer.

If you wrote several patches on top of each other:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ moz-phab submit <first_revision>::<last_revision>

`More
information <https://moz-conduit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/phabricator-user.html>`__

To update a submitted patch
---------------------------

It is rare that a reviewer will accept the first version of patch. Moreover,
as the code review bot might suggest some improvements, changes to your patch
may be required.

Run:

.. code-block:: shell

   # Mercurial
   $ hg commit --amend

   # Git
   $ git commit --amend

After amending the patch, you will need to submit it using moz-phab again.

If you wrote many changes, you can squash or edit commits with the
command:

.. code-block:: shell

   # Mercurial
   $ hg histedit

   # Git
   $ git rebase -i

The submission step is the same as for the initial patch.

Retrieve new changes from the repository
----------------------------------------

To pull changes from the repository, run:

.. code-block:: shell

   # Mercurial
   $ hg pull --rebase

   # Git
   $ git pull --rebase

To push a change in the code base
---------------------------------

Once the change has been accepted, ask the reviewer if they could land
the change. They don’t have an easy way to know if a contributor has
permission to land it or not.

If the reviewer does not land the patch after a few days, add
the *Check-in Needed* Tags to the review (*Edit Revision*).

The landing procedure will automatically close the review and the bug.

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/How_to_Submit_a_Patch#Submitting_the_patch>`__

More documentation about contribution
-------------------------------------

https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Introduction

https://mozilla-version-control-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/devguide/contributing.html

https://moz-conduit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/phabricator-user.html

Commit message:

Bug 1600089 - Add the help info and update the moz-phab link.r=sylvestre
Add the information about asking for help and linked moz-phab to Pypi Package

Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D58312

--HG--
extra : moz-landing-system : lando

tools/docs/docs/contribute/how_to_contribute_firefox.rst, after:

How to contribute to Firefox
============================

The goal of this doc is to have a place where all simple commands
are listed from start to end.

This aims to be a simple tutorial for lazy copy and paste.

Each section in this tutorial links to more detailed documentation on the topic.

The whole process is a bit long, it will take time to get things right.
If at any point you are stuck, please don't feel shy to ask on IRC at irc.mozilla.org in `#introduction <https://kiwiirc.com/nextclient/irc.mozilla.org:6697/introduction>`__ channel.

Clone the sources
-----------------

You can use either mercurial or git. Mercurial is the canonical version control
system.

.. code-block:: shell

    $ hg clone https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/

For git, see the `git cinnabar documentation <https://github.com/glandium/git-cinnabar/wiki/Mozilla:-A-git-workflow-for-Gecko-development>`__

The clone should be around 30 minutes (depending on your connection) and
the repository should be less than 5GB (~ 20GB after the build).

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Source_Code/Mercurial>`__

Install dependencies
--------------------

Firefox provides a mechanism to install all dependencies; in the source tree:

.. code-block:: shell

     $ ./mach bootstrap

The default options are recommended.
Select "`Artifact Mode <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Artifact_builds>`__" if you are not planning to write C++ or Rust code.

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Linux_Prerequisites>`__

Windows dependencies
--------------------

#. You need 64-bit version of Windows 7 or later.
#. Download and install `Visual Studio. <https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/>`__
#. Finally download the `MozillaBuild Package. <https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/mozilla/libraries/win32/MozillaBuildSetup-Latest.exe>`__ Installation directory should be:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ c:\mozilla-build\

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Windows_Prerequisites>`__


To build & run
--------------

Once all the dependencies have been installed, run:

.. code-block:: shell

     $ ./mach build

which will check for dependencies and start the build.
This will take a while; a few minutes to a few hours depending on your hardware.

To run it:

.. code-block:: shell

     $ ./mach run

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Simple_Firefox_build/Linux_and_MacOS_build_preparation>`__


To write a patch
----------------

Make the changes you need in the code base.

Then:

.. code-block:: shell

    # Mercurial
    $ hg commit

    # Git
    $ git commit

The commit message should look like:

.. code-block::

    Bug xxxx - Short description of your change. r?reviewer

    Optionally, a longer description of the change.

To find a reviewer, the easiest way is to do ``hg log <modified-file>`` (or
``git log <modified-file>``, if you're using git) on the relevant files, and
look who usually is reviewing the actual changes (ie not reformat, renaming
of variables, etc).

To visualize your patch in the repository, run:

.. code-block:: shell

    # Mercurial
    $ hg wip

    # Git
    $ git show


`More information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Mercurial>`__


To test a change locally
------------------------

To run the tests, use mach test with the path. However, it isn’t
always easy to parse the results.

.. code-block:: shell

    $ ./mach test dom/serviceworkers

`More information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/QA/Automated_testing>`__

To test a change remotely
-------------------------

Running all the tests for Firefox takes a very long time and requires multiple
operating systems with various configurations. To build Firefox and run its
tests on continuous integration servers (CI), two commands are available:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ ./mach try chooser

To select jobs running a fuzzy search:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ ./mach try fuzzy

From Treeherder, it is also possible to attach new jobs. As every review has
a try CI run associated, it makes this work easier. See :ref:`attach-job-review` for
more information.

.. note::

    This requires `level 1 commit access <https://www.mozilla.org/about/governance/policies/commit/access-policy/>`__.

    You can ask your reviewer to submit the patch for you if you don't have that
    level of access.

`More information <https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/tools/try/index.html>`__


To submit a patch
-----------------

To submit a patch for review, we use a tool called `moz-phab <https://pypi.org/project/MozPhab/>`__.

.. code-block:: shell

     $ moz-phab

It will publish all the currently applied patches to Phabricator and inform the reviewer.

If you wrote several patches on top of each other:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ moz-phab submit <first_revision>::<last_revision>

`More
information <https://moz-conduit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/phabricator-user.html>`__

To update a submitted patch
---------------------------

It is rare that a reviewer will accept the first version of patch. Moreover,
as the code review bot might suggest some improvements, changes to your patch
may be required.

Run:

.. code-block:: shell

   # Mercurial
   $ hg commit --amend

   # Git
   $ git commit --amend

After amending the patch, you will need to submit it using moz-phab again.

If you wrote many changes, you can squash or edit commits with the
command:

.. code-block:: shell

   # Mercurial
   $ hg histedit

   # Git
   $ git rebase -i

The submission step is the same as for the initial patch.

Retrieve new changes from the repository
----------------------------------------

To pull changes from the repository, run:

.. code-block:: shell

   # Mercurial
   $ hg pull --rebase

   # Git
   $ git pull --rebase

To push a change in the code base
---------------------------------

Once the change has been accepted, ask the reviewer if they could land
the change. They don’t have an easy way to know if a contributor has
permission to land it or not.

If the reviewer does not land the patch after a few days, add
the *Check-in Needed* Tags to the review (*Edit Revision*).

The landing procedure will automatically close the review and the bug.

`More
information <https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/How_to_Submit_a_Patch#Submitting_the_patch>`__

More documentation about contribution
-------------------------------------

https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Introduction

https://mozilla-version-control-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/devguide/contributing.html

https://moz-conduit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/phabricator-user.html
