<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
]
>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Using the Help Window</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>

<h1 id="help_window_top">Using the Help Window</h1>

<p>This section describes how to use the Help window (the entire window in
  which this text and the Sidebar on the left are displayed).</p>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#finding_the_topic_you_want">Finding the Topic You Want</a></li>
    <li><a href="#search_tips">Search Tips</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="finding_the_topic_you_want">Finding the Topic You Want</h2>

<p>When you're viewing the Help window, click the tabs in the left frame to view
  the Help contents in different ways:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Contents</strong> shows the list of main topics.<br/>
    Click a topic to read about it. Double-click to see its subtopics.</li>
  <li><strong>Search</strong> lets you search the Help files.<br/>
    Type a word or phrase to see related topics. Then click the topic you want
    to read about.  If your search doesn't return any topics, try typing fewer
    words or a different combination of words.</li>
  <li><strong>Index</strong> lists topics alphabetically.<br/>
    Click an index entry to view information on that topic.</li>
  <li><strong>Glossary</strong> lists definitions alphabetically.<br/>
    Click a glossary term to see its definition.</li>
</ul>

<p>To see information related to the Help topic you are reading, click links in
  the Help window just as you would in a regular web page.  You can also move
  back and forth between pages you've already seen using the Back and Forward
  buttons.</p>

<h2 id="search_tips">Search Tips</h2>

<p>If you don't find what you want, here are a few helpful tips:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Be sure that you are searching for something that relates to
    &brandShortName;; this is not a general Internet search.</li>
  <li>Try to broaden your search - don't be too specific; terms could be worded
    differently than your search.</li>
  <li>Avoid being too broad with your search.  For example, a common word like
    &quot;page&quot; will likely return more topics than you want.</li>
</ul>

<div class="contentsBox"><em>24 May 2005</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; 2003-2005 Contributors to the Mozilla Help Viewer Project.</p>

</body>
</html>
