.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLArrayReorder 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLArrayReorder \- reorder items in an array
.SH SYNTAX
int XmLArrayReorder(\fIarray\fP, \fInewPositions\fP, \fIpos\fP, \fIcount\fP)
.br
XmLArray \fIarray\fP;
.br
int \fInewPositions\fP;
.br
int \fIpos\fP;
.br
int \fIcount\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIarray\fP 1i
array to operate on
.IP \fInewPositions\fP 1i
new positions of items
.IP \fIpos\fP 1i
start position of items to reorder
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
number of items to reorder
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reorders the \fIarray\fP by ordering \fIcount\fP pointers at position
\fIpos\fP to the positions specified in the \fInewPositions\fP array.
The newPositions array should contain numbers starting at pos and
ending at pos + count - 1.  This function does not free the newPositions
array passed in.
.SH RETURN VALUE
0 upon success and -1 upon failure (a value passed is out of range).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLArrayAdd(3X) XmLArrayDel(3X) XmLArrayFree(3X) XmLArrayGet(3X)
XmLArrayGetCount(3X) XmLArrayNew(3X)
XmLArrayReorder(3X) XmLArraySet(3X) XmLArraySort(3X)
