.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public
.\" License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file
.\" except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.\" the License at http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\"
.\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS
.\" IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or
.\" implied. See the License for the specific language governing
.\" rights and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The Original Code is mozilla.org code.
.\"
.\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation. All
.\" Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Contributor(s): 
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLCreateProgress 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLCreateProgress \- create an instance of a Progress widget
.SH SYNTAX
Widget XmLCreateProgress(\fIparent\fP, \fIname\fP, \fIarglist\fP,
\fIargcount\fP)
.br
Widget \fIparent\fP;
.br
char *\fIname\fP;
.br
ArgList \fIarglist\fP;
.br
Cardinal \fIargcount\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIparent\fP 1i
new widgets parent widget ID
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
name of the newly created widget
.IP \fIarglist\fP 1i
resource name/value pairs
.IP \fIargcount\fP 1i
count of pairs in arglist
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates an instance of a Progress widget and returns its widget ID.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The widget ID of the newly created Progress widget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLProgress(3X)
