.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public
.\" License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file
.\" except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.\" the License at http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\"
.\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS
.\" IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or
.\" implied. See the License for the specific language governing
.\" rights and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The Original Code is mozilla.org code.
.\"
.\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation. All
.\" Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Contributor(s): 
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLFontListGetDimensions 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLFontListGetDimensions \- calculates overall width and height of characters
in a font list
.SH SYNTAX
void XmLFontListGetDimensions(\fIfontList\fP, \fIwidth\fP, \
\fIheight\fP, \fIuseAverageWidth\fP)
.br
XmFontList \fIfontList\fP;
.br
short *\fIwidth\fP;
.br
short *\fIheight\fP;
.br
Boolean \fIuseAverageWidth\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfontList\fP 1i
font list
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
maximum or average character width in fontlist
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
maximum character height in fontlist
.IP \fIuseAverageWidth\fP 1i
if True, return average glyph width instead of maximum glyph width
.SH DESCRIPTION
Calculates the overall \fIwidth\fP and \fIheight\fP of the characters in
a given \fIfontList\fP. The height returned is the height of the tallest
glyph.  If \fIuseAverageWidth\fP is False, the width returned is the
width of the widest glyph. If True, the width returned is the average
width of all of the glyphs.
