.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLFolder 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLFolder
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <XmL/Folder.h>
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Provides a Folder containing tabs along the top, bottom, left or
right and an area managed by the tabs in the center.  Each tab
consists of a Primitive widget surrounded by tab decorations including
an optional pixmap.  Any non-Primitive widget children of the Folder
are placed in the center area.  The widgets contained in the tabs
can be assigned a non-Primitive widget to display/manage when the
tab widget is selected.
.SS Class Information
Folder inherits from XmManager, Constraint, Composite and Core. Its
class pointer is xmlFolderWidgetClass.  Its class name is XmLFolder.
.SS New Resources

.nf
.ft B
Name                     Class
 Type                     Default              Access
.ft P
XmNactiveTab             XmCActiveTab
 int                      -1                   G
XmNautoSelect            XmCAutoSelect
 Boolean                  True                 CSG
XmNblankBackground       XmCBlankBackground
 Pixel                    dynamic              CSG
XmNblankBackgroundPixmap XmCBlankBackgroundPixmap
 Pixmap                   dynamic              CSG
XmNcornerDimension       XmCCornerDimension
 Dimension                2                    CSG
XmNcornerStyle           XmCCornerStyle
 unsigned char            XmCORNER_ARC         CSG
XmNdebugLevel            XmCDebugLevel
 int                      0                    CSG
XmNfontList              XmCFontList
 XmFontList               dynamic              CSG
XmNhighlightThickness    XmCHighlightThickness
 Dimension                2                    CSG
XmNinactiveBackground    XmCInactiveBackground
 Pixel                    dynamic              CSG
XmNinactiveForeground    XmCInactiveForeground
 Pixel                    dynamic              CSG
XmNmarginHeight          XmCMarginHeight
 Dimension                0                    CSG
XmNmarginWidth           XmCMarginWidth
 Dimension                0                    CSG
XmNpixmapMargin          XmCPixmapMargin
 Dimension                2                    CSG
XmNresizePolicy          XmCFolderResizePolicy
 XmRFolderResizePolicy    XmRESIZE_STATIC      CSG
XmNrotateWhenLeftRight   XmCRotateWhenLeftRight
 Boolean                  True                 CSG
XmNspacing               XmCSpacing
 Dimension                0                    CSG
XmNtabBarHeight          XmCTabBarHeight
 Dimension                dynamic              G
XmNtabCount              XmCTabCount
 int                      0                    G
XmNtabPlacement          XmCTabPlacement
 unsigned char            XmFOLDER_TOP         CSG
XmNtabsPerRow            XmCTabsPerRow
 int                      0                    CSG
XmNtabTranslations       XmCTranslations
 XtTranslations           [focus translations] CG
XmNtabWidgetList         XmCReadOnly
 WidgetList               dynamic              G
.fi
.IP XmNactiveTab
The position of the currently active tab. The first tab on the
left has a position of 0. If no tab is active, this value equals -1.
.IP XmNautoSelect
If True (the default), the Folder will activate its first tab
when it is realized.  No callback is generated by this action.
If False, no initial tab will be activated.
.IP XmNblankBackground
The color of the area between tabs, around tabs, and between
tabs and the edge of the Folder.
.IP XmNblankBackgroundPixmap
The pixmap to display as a background (tiled) in the blank background
area.  See XmNblankBackground.
.IP XmNcornerDimension
If XmNcornerStyle is XmCORNER_LINE, this value is used to determine
the length of the lines that clip the corners of the tabs. The
greater this value is, the longer the corner lines will be. If 
XmNcornerStyle is XmCORNER_ARC, this value is used to determine
the sizes of the arcs in the corners of the tabs. If XmNcornerStyle
is XmCORNER_NONE, this resource has no effect.
.IP XmNcornerStyle
Defines the type of corners on the individual tabs. Possible values:

.nf
     XmCORNER_NONE     /* no corners */
     XmCORNER_LINE     /* corners are beveled */
     XmCORNER_ARC      /* corners are round */
.fi
.IP XmNdebugLevel
If set to a value greater than 0, debugging messages will be
printed to stderr.  When set to 0 (the default) only error
messages will be generated.
.IP XmNfontList
The default font list for tabs created with the XmLFolderAddTab()
functions.  Changing this value does not affect existing widgets.
If this value is NULL, a font list is obtained from the nearest
parent that is a subclass of BulletinBoard, MenuShell, or VendorShell.
.IP XmNhighlightThickness
The thickness of the highlight drawn around the Primitive widget
contained in the active tab. When a Primitive widget is added to
the Folder, its highlightThickness is set to 0. The Folder is 
responsible for drawing the highlight in the active tab.
This is necessary because if the Primitive widget were allowed
to draw the highlight, it would erase the highlight with
an incorrect color. 
.IP XmNinactiveBackground
The background color of inactive tabs. This value is initially set
to the background color of the Folder widget.
.IP XmNinactiveForeground
The foreground color of inactive tabs. This value is initially
set to the foreground color of the Folder widget.
.IP XmNmarginHeight
If tab placement is on the top or bottom, this value is the margin
between tab widgets and the top of tabs, and between tab widgets
and the bottom of tabs.  If tab placement is on the left or right,
this value is the margin between tab widgets and the left of tabs,
and between tab widgets and the right of tabs.
.IP XmNmarginWidth
If tab placement is on the top or bottom, this value is the margin
between tab widgets and the left of tabs, and between tab widgets
and the right of tabs.  If tab placement is on the left
or right, this value is the margin between tab widgets and the top of
tabs and between tab widgets and bottoms of tabs.
.IP XmNpixmapMargin
The margin between the tab widget and any pixmap to its left.
.IP XmNresizePolicy
This policy determines when the Folder should perform a request
for a new size from its parent.
A policy of XmRESIZE_STATIC (the default) will cause the Folder
to initially request a size which includes the preferred size of
its children and then reject any subsequent resize requests from
its non-tab widget children.  A policy of XmRESIZE_DYNAMIC will
cause the Folder to resize itself to include the preferred size
of any of its children whenever its children change size.  A
policy of XmRESIZE_NONE will cause the Folder to never generate
a resize request and also will cause it not to perform geometry
management on its non-tab widget children.  Possible values:

.nf
     XmRESIZE_NONE    /* no resize requests and no
                         placement or geometry management
                         of non-tab children */
     XmRESIZE_STATIC  /* initially layout to include
                         preferred size of children */
     XmRESIZE_DYNAMIC /* dynamically resize as children
                         request new size */
.fi
.IP XmNrotateWhenLeftRight
If True, XmDrawnButton based tabs (including tabs created with the
XmLFolderAddTab() functions) will display their text vertically
instead of horizontally if they are placed on the left or right
of the Folder.  This occurs when the Folder's XmNtabPlacement
resource is XmFOLDER_LEFT or XmFOLDER_RIGHT.  Tabs on the
left would have their text drawn up and tabs on the right
would have their text drawn down.  If False, tabs are left
oriented horizontally regardless of their placement.
.IP XmNspacing
The amount of space between tabs.
.IP XmNtabBarHeight
The height, in pixels, of the tab bar. If tab placement is on
the left or right, this value is the width of the tab bar.
This value may not be set and is only valid after the Folder
has been managed and has performed its layout.
.IP XmNtabCount
The number of tabs displayed. 
.IP XmNtabPlacement
Where to place the tabs. Possible values:

.nf
     XmFOLDER_TOP     /* top left to right */
     XmFOLDER_BOTTOM  /* bottom left to right */
     XmFOLDER_LEFT    /* left top to bottom */
     XmFOLDER_RIGHT   /* right top to bottom */
.fi
.IP XmNtabsPerRow
If set to 0 (the default), the Folder will place tabs in a
single row one after another during layout.  If non-zero,
this value specifies the number of rows of tabs to appear
in the Folder and the Folder will pad each row to the width
of the Folder by proportionally sizing the tabs based on
their contents and the width of the row.
.IP XmNtabTranslations
The translation table used to augment the translations of
Primitive widgets added to the Folder. The Folder overrides
the FocusIn and FocusOut translations of its Primitive widget
children allowing it to draw and erase tab highlights.
.IP XmNtabWidgetList
The list of widgets contained inside the tabs. These widgets
are subclasses of XmPrimitive. 
.SS Constraint Resources
Folder defines the following constraint resources.

.nf
.ft B
Name                     Class
 Type                     Default               Access
.ft P
XmNtabFreePixmaps        XmCTabFreePixmap
 Boolean                  False                 CSG
XmNtabInactivePixmap     XmCTabInactivePixmap
 Pixmap                   XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP  CSG
XmNtabManagedName        XmCTabManagedName
 String                   NULL                  CSG
XmNtabManagedWidget      XmCTabManagedWidget
 Widget                   NULL                  CSG
XmNtabPixmap             XmCTabPixmap
 Pixmap                   XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP  CSG
.fi
.IP XmNtabFreePixmaps
If True, the Folder will call XFreePixmap on the XmNtabPixmap and
XmNtabInactivePixmap pixmaps when this widget is destroyed.
This value is set to True for tabs created by the
XmLFolderAddBitmapTab() functions.
.IP XmNtabInactivePixmap
The pixmap to appear in the left of the tab when the tab is inactive.
.IP XmNtabManagedName
By setting a managed name on a tab widget and setting the same
managed name on a Manager widget, you specify that the tab
manages the Manager widget.  You can also specify that a tab
manages a specific Manager widget by setting the managed name
on the tab widget to the name (XtName) of the Manager widget.
If a tab widget has a managed name, the XmNtabManagedWidget
resource of the tab widget is ignored.
.IP XmNtabManagedWidget
Specifies a widget to be managed when this widget is activated.
When this widget is deactivated, its managed widget will be
unmanaged. This resource allows Manager widgets contained in the 
center of the Folder to be attached to tabs, so when a user
selects a tab its attached Manager widget will be displayed on
the screen.
.IP XmNtabPixmap
The pixmap to appear in the left of the tab when the tab is active.
.SS Callback Resources
Folder defines the following callback resources.

.nf
.ft B
Callback               Reason
.ft P
XmNactivateCallback    XmCR_ACTIVATE
.fi
.SS Callback Structure
Each callback function is passed a pointer to the structure shown below.

.nf
   typedef struct            
     {
     int reason;         /* callback reason */
     XEvent *event;      /* event callback or NULL */
     int pos;            /* position of tab to act */
     int allowActivate;  /* allow/disallow act (1/0) */
     } XmLFolderCallbackStruct;    
.fi

pos will be set to the position of the tab (with 0 as the first tab
on the left) to activate for XmNactivateCallback callbacks.
If allowActivate is set to 0 by the callback function, the tab will not 
be activated and the attempt to activate the given tab will be rejected. 
.SS Inherited Resources
Folder inherits the resources shown below.

.nf
.ft B
Resource              From        Resource                  From
.ft P
XmNaccelerators       Core        XmNinitialResourcePersist Core
XmNancestorSensitive  Core        XmNinsertPosition         Composite
XmNbackground         Core        XmNmappedWhenManaged      Core
XmNbackgroundPixmap   Core        XmNnavagationType         Manager
XmNborderColor        Core        XmNnumChildren            Composite
XmNborderPixmap       Core        XmNscreen                 Core
XmNborderWidth        Core        XmNsensitive              Core
XmNbottomShadowColor  Manager     XmNshadowThicknses        Manager
XmNbottomShadowPixmap Manager     XmNstringDirection        Manager
XmNchildren           Composite   XmNtopShadowColor         Manager
XmNcolormap           Core        XmNtopShadowPixmap        Manager
XmNdepth              Core        XmNtranslations           Core
XmNdestroyCallback    Core        XmNtraversalOn            Manager
XmNforeground         Manager     XmNunitType               Manager
XmNheight             Core        XmNuserData               Manager
XmNhelpCallback       Manager     XmNwidth                  Core
XmNhighlightColor     Manager     XmNx                      Core
XmNhighlightPixmap    Manager     XmNy                      Core
.fi

.SS Folder Translations
Folder defines the translations shown below.

.nf
.ft B
Event            Action
.ft P
BSelect Press    XmLFolderActivate()
.fi
.SS Folder Primitive Translations
Folder overrides the translations shown below for all of
its Primitive widget children.

.nf
.ft B
Event       Action
.ft P
FocusIn     PrimitiveFocusIn() XmLFolderPrimFocusIn()
FocusOut    PrimtiveFocusOut() XmLFolderPrimFocusOut()
.fi
.SS Action Routines
Folder defines the actions shown below.
.IP XmLFolderActivate()
Activates the tab at the location of the event passed to the action routine.
.IP XmLFolderPrimFocusIn()
Draws a highlight around the given widget.
.IP XmLFolderPrimFocusOut()
Erases the highlight around the given widget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLCreateFolder(3X) XmLFolderAddBitmapTab(3X) XmLFolderAddBitmapTabForm(3X)
XmLFolderAddTab(3X) XmLFolderAddTabForm(3X) XmLFolderSetActiveTab(3X)
