.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public
.\" License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file
.\" except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.\" the License at http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\"
.\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS
.\" IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or
.\" implied. See the License for the specific language governing
.\" rights and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The Original Code is mozilla.org code.
.\"
.\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation. All
.\" Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Contributor(s): 
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridGetFocus 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridGetFocus \- return the position of the current focus cell in a Grid
.SH SYNTAX
void XmLGridGetFocus(\fIwidget\fP, \fIrow\fP, \
\fIcolumn\fP, \fIfocusIn\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
int *\fIrow\fP;
.br
int *\fIcolumn\fP;
.br
Boolean *\fIfocusIn\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fIrow\fP 1i
position of content row
.IP \fIcolumn\fP 1i
position of content column
.IP \fIfocusIn\fP 1i
True if focus is in widget
.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns the content \fIrow\fP and content \fIcolumn\fP which currently has
focus.  If focus is currently in the Grid, \fIfocusIn\fP will be set
to True. Otherwise, it will be set to False. The row or column
returned may be set to -1 which indicates that no cell in
the Grid has focus.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGridSetFocus(3X)
