.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridDeleteColumns 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridDeleteColumns \- delete columns in a Grid
.SH SYNTAX
void XmLGridDeleteColumns(\fIwidget\fP, \fItype\fP, \
\fIposition\fP, \fIcount\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
unsigned char \fItype\fP;
.br
int \fIposition\fP;
.br
int \fIcount\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
type of column
.IP \fIposition\fP 1i
position of first column
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
number of columns to delete
.SH DESCRIPTION
Deletes \fIcount\fP columns of the given \fItype\fP in the Grid at
the specified \fIposition\fP. A position of 0 indicates the
first column of the given type. The Grid will call its
XmNdeleteCallback callbacks for each column and cell deleted.
If possible, the focus will remain in the column which had
focus prior to the deletion of columns. If the cell which has
focus is in one of the columns deleted, the Grid's
XmNcellFocusCallback callbacks will be called with a reason of
XmCR_CELL_FOCUS_OUT before that column is deleted.
If a cell in one of the columns is currently being edited,
the Grid's XmNeditCallback callbacks will be called with a
reason of XmCR_EDIT_CANCEL before that column is deleted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGrid(3X) XmLGridDeleteRows(3X)
