.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public
.\" License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file
.\" except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.\" the License at http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\"
.\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS
.\" IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or
.\" implied. See the License for the specific language governing
.\" rights and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The Original Code is mozilla.org code.
.\"
.\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation. All
.\" Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Contributor(s): 
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridCopySelected 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridCopySelected \- copy the string contents of selected cells in a Grid
to the clipboard
.SH SYNTAX
Boolean XmLGridCopySelected(\fIwidget\fP, \fItime\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
Time \fItime\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Time of event
.SH DESCRIPTION
Copies the contents any selected cells in a Grid to the clipboard.
The \fItime\fP parameter should be set to the time of the event
(most likely CurrentTime).
.SH RETURN VALUE
True is returned upon success, and False is returned upon failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGridCopyPos(3X) XmLGridPaste(3X)
