.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridPastePos 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridPastePos \- paste cell contents from the clipboard into a Grid
at a specified location
.SH SYNTAX
Boolean XmLGridPastePos(\fIwidget\fP, \fIrowType\fP, \fIrow\fP,
\fIcolumnType\fP, \fIcolumn\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
unsigned char \fIrowType\fP;
.br
int \fIrow\fP;
.br
unsigned char \fIcolumnType\fP;
.br
int \fIcolumn\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fIrowType\fP 1i
type of first row location
.IP \fIrow\fP 1i
location of first row
.IP \fIcolumnType\fP 1i
type of first column location
.IP \fIcolumn\fP 1i
location of first column
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pastes cell contents (strings) from the clipboard into a Grid starting
at the row and column specified by the given \fIrowType\fP, \fIrow\fP,
\fIcolumnType\fP, and \fIcolumn\fP.  This function does not invoke
any callbacks.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A value of True is returned upon success, and False is returned
upon failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGridCopyPos(3X) XmLGridCopySelected(3X) XmLGridPaste(3X)
