.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridGetSelectedColumns 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridGetSelectedColumns \- retrieve positions of currently selected columns
.SH SYNTAX
int XmLGridGetSelectedColumns(\fIwidget\fP, \fIpositions\fP, \fIcount\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
int *\fIpositions\fP;
.br
int \fIcount\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fIpositions\fP 1i
positions of content columns
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
number of positions
.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns the \fIpositions\fP of the currently selected content columns.
The \fIcount\fP value passed to this function must equal the number
of currently selected columns. The number of currently selected
columns can be found by calling XmLGridGetSelectedColumnCount().
The column positions arrays must be allocated before
calling this function and must have enough space to hold
the positions which will be returned.  This function does not
allocate memory; it is the application's responsibility to
allocate and deallocate the space used to hold the column
positions.
.SH RETURN VALUE
0 is returned upon successful completion. A value of
-1 is returned and an error message is generated if count
does not equal the number of currently selected columns.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGridGetSelectedColumnCount(3X)
