.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridCopyPos 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridCopyPos \- copy the string contents of cells in a Grid at a
given location to the clipboard
.SH SYNTAX
Boolean XmLGridCopyPos(\fIwidget\fP, \fItime\fP, \fIrowType\fP, \fIrow\fP, \
\fIcolumnType\fP, \fIcolumn\fP, \fInrow\fP, \fIncolumn\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
Time \fItime\fP;
.br
unsigned char \fIrowType\fP;
.br
int \fIrow\fP;
.br
unsigned char \fIcolumnType\fP;
.br
int \fIcolumn\fP;
.br
int \fInrow\fP;
.br
int \fIncolumn\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Time of event
.IP \fIrowType\fP 1i
type of first row
.IP \fIrow\fP 1i
location of first row
.IP \fIcolumnType\fP 1i
type of first column
.IP \fIcolumn\fP 1i
location of first column
.IP \fInrow\fP 1i
number of rows
.IP \fIncolumn\fP 1i
number of columns
.SH DESCRIPTION
Copies the contents of cells in \fInrow\fP number of rows and
\fIncolumn\fP number of columns to the clipboard
starting at the row and column specified by
\fIrowType\fP, \fIrow\fP, \fIcolumnType\fP, and \fIcolumn\fP.
The \fItime\fP parameter should be set to the time of the event
(most likely CurrentTime).
.SH RETURN VALUE
A value of True is returned upon success, and False is returned
upon failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGridCopySelected(3X) XmLGridPaste(3X)
