.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridRowColumnToXY 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridRowColumnToXY \- return coordinates of a cell
.SH SYNTAX
int XmLGridRowColumnToXY(\fIwidget\fP, \fIrowType\fP, \fIrow\fP, \
\fIcolumnType\fP, \fIcolumn\fP, \fIclipped\fP, \fIrect\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
unsigned char \fIrowType\fP;
.br
int \fIrow\fP;
.br
unsigned char \fIcolumnType\fP;
.br
int \fIcolumn\fP;
.br
Boolean \fIclipped\fP;
.br
XRectangle *\fIrect\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fIrowType\fP 1i
type of row
.IP \fIrow\fP 1i
position of row
.IP \fIcolumnType\fP 1i
type of column
.IP \fIcolumn\fP 1i
position of column
.IP \fIclipped\fP 1i
return clipped or unclipped coordinates
.IP \fIrect\fP 1i
cell geometry
.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns the current coordinates of the cell specified by the \fIrow\fP
of type \fIrowType\fP and \fIcolumn\fP of type \fIcolumnType\fP in
the rectangle \fIrect\fP.  If \fIclipped\fP is True, the rectangle
returned will be the cell's rectangle clipped to the current viewing
area.  If \fIclipped\fP is False, the rectangle returned will be
the cell's unclipped rectangle, a rectangle with the full width and
height of the cell, not clipped to the viewport.  The unclipped
cell rectangle is usually used to determine positioning based
on cell alignment.
.SH RETURN VALUE
0 is returned upon success, and a value of -1 is returned if the row
and column position is invalid or if the cell is currently not visible.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGridXYToRowColumn(3X)
