.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public
.\" License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file
.\" except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.\" the License at http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\"
.\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS
.\" IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or
.\" implied. See the License for the specific language governing
.\" rights and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The Original Code is mozilla.org code.
.\"
.\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation. All
.\" Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Contributor(s): 
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridEditBegin 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridEditBegin \- begin an edit in a cell
.SH SYNTAX
int XmLGridEditBegin(\fIwidget\fP, \fIinsert\fP, \fIrow\fP, \fIcolumn\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
Boolean \fIinsert\fP;
.br
int \fIrow\fP;
.br
int \fIcolumn\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fIinsert\fP 1i
insert flag
.IP \fIrow\fP 1i
position of content row
.IP \fIcolumn\fP 1i
position of content column
.SH DESCRIPTION
Begin editing a cell at the given content \fIrow\fP and content
\fIcolumn\fP. If \fIinsert\fP is True, the edit will begin with the
text widget containing the existing cell contents.  If False, the text
widget child of the Grid will be cleared when the edit begins.  If the
function is successful, the Grid's XmNeditCallback callbacks will be called.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the cell position specified is invalid or the cell
can not be edited, a value of -1 will be returned.  A value of 0
is returned if this function is successful.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGridEditCancel(3X) XmLGridEditComplete(3X)
