.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridXYToRowColumn 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridXYToRowColumn \- locate the cell at a given position
.SH SYNTAX
int XmLGridXYToRowColumn(\fIwidget\fP, \fIx\fP, \fIy\fP, \
\fIrowType\fP, \fIrow\fP, \fIcolumnType\fP, \fIcolumn\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
int \fIx\fP;
.br
int \fIy\fP;
.br
unsigned char *\fIrowType\fP;
.br
int *\fIrow\fP;
.br
unsigned char *\fIcolumnType\fP;
.br
int *\fIcolumn\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
x-coordinate relative to Grid's top left
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
y-coordinate relative to Grid's top left
.IP \fIrowType\fP 1i
type of row
.IP \fIrow\fP 1i
position of row
.IP \fIcolumnType\fP 1i
type of column
.IP \fIcolumn\fP 1i
position of column
.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns the position of the cell containing the \fIx\fP and \fIy\fP
coordinates specified.  Upon success, a value of 0 will be
returned and \fIrowType\fP and \fIrow\fP will be set the type of
row and row position, respectively, and \fIcolumnType\fP
and \fIcolumn\fP will be set to the type of column and column
position, respectively.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If no cell exists at the location specified, a value of -1 will be returned.
Upon success, a value of 0 will be returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGrid(3X)
