.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public
.\" License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file
.\" except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.\" the License at http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\"
.\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS
.\" IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or
.\" implied. See the License for the specific language governing
.\" rights and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The Original Code is mozilla.org code.
.\"
.\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation. All
.\" Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Contributor(s): 
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLGridSetStrings 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLGridSetStrings \- set strings in a Grid
.SH SYNTAX
int XmLGridSetStrings(\fIwidget\fP, \fIdata\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
char *\fIdata\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Grid widget ID
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
pointer to pipe-separated string data
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sets cell strings in the Grid starting at the top left cell
with the strings contained in \fIdata\fP. The string data should
be in pipe-separated format where pipes signify the start of
a new column and new-lines signify the start of new rows.
The rows and columns set must exist at the time of this call.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The number of cells which had values set by this function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLGridSetStringsPos(3X)
