.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLMessageBox 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLMessageBox \- display a simple message dialog
.SH SYNTAX
int XmLMessageBox(\fIwidget\fP, \fIstring\fP, \fIokOnly\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
XmString \fIstring\fP;
.br
Boolean \fIokOnly\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
widget the MessageBox should appear in front of
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
message to display
.IP \fIokOnly\fP 1i
display 1 or 3 buttons
.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays a message dialog containing a \fIstring\fP and an Ok button if
\fIokOnly\fP is True, or a question dialog with three buttons (Ok,
Cancel, and Help) and a string if okOnly is False. This function
will not return until the user chooses one of the buttons.
If the user closes the window via the title bar, the action
chosen is assumed to be Ok. The dialog will appear in front of
the given \fIwidget\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The number of the button chosen, where 1 is Ok, 2 is Cancel,
and 3 is Help.
