.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLPixmapDraw 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLPixmapDraw \- draws a pixmap clipped and aligned in a widget
.SH SYNTAX
void XmLPixmapDraw(\fIwidget\fP, \fIpixmap\fP, \fIpixmask\fP, \
\fIpixmapWidth\fP, \fIpixmapHeight\fP, \fIalignment\fP, \
\fIgc\fP, \fIrect\fP, \fIclipRect\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
Pixmap \fIpixmap\fP;
.br
Pixmap \fIpixmask\fP;
.br
int \fIpixmapWidth\fP;
.br
int \fIpixmapHeight\fP;
.br
unsigned char \fIalignment\fP;
.br
GC \fIgc\fP;
.br
XRectangle *\fIrect\fP;
.br
XRectangle *\fIclipRect\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
drawing destination widget
.IP \fIpixmap\fP 1i
pixmap to draw
.IP \fIpixmask\fP 1i
pixmap mask for drawing
.IP \fIpixmapWidth\fP 1i
width of pixmap in pixels
.IP \fIpixmapHeight\fP 1i
height of pixmap in pixels
.IP \fIalignment\fP 1i
alignment
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
graphics context for drawing
.IP \fIrect\fP 1i
source rectangle
.IP \fIclipRect\fP 1i
destination/clipping rectangle
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws a \fIpixmap\fP of width \fIpixmapWidth\fP and height \fIpixmapHeight\fP
using the GC \fIgc\fP in the window of the \fIwidget\fP given. The
\fIpixmask\fP parameter must be either set to XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP
or a Pixmap of depth one.  If a Pixmap is specified, it is used as a
mask to restrict the area drawn.
The \fIrect\fP parameter indicates the rectangle used to
determine alignment. The \fIclipRect\fP rectangle parameter given
indicates the rectangle used to clip the drawing.
\fIAlignment\fP must be one of the following:
XmALIGNMENT_TOP_LEFT, XmALIGNMENT_TOP, XmALIGNMENT_TOP_RIGHT, 
XmALIGNMENT_LEFT, XmALIGNMENT_CENTER, XmALIGNMENT_RIGHT,
XmALIGNMENT_BOTTOM_LEFT, XmALIGNMENT_BOTTOM or XmALIGNMENT_BOTTOM_RIGHT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLStringDraw(3X)
