.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLSort 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLSort \- sort an array using a quicksort algorithm
.SH SYNTAX
void XmLSort(\fIbase\fP, \fInumItems\fP, \
\fIitemSize\fP, \fIcompare\fP, \fIuserData\fP)
.br
void *\fIbase\fP;
.br
int \fInumItems\fP;
.br
unsigned int \fIitemSize\fP;
.br
XmLSortCompareFunc \fIcompare\fP;
.br
void *\fIuserData\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIbase\fP 1i
base of array to sort
.IP \fInumItems\fP 1i
number of items to be sorted
.IP \fIitemSize\fP 1i
size of items to be sorted
.IP \fIcompare\fP 1i
comparison function
.IP \fIuserData\fP 1i
user data
.SH DESCRIPTION
Performs a median-of-three quicksort to sort the array starting
at the address \fIbase\fP which contains \fInumItems\fP items of size
\fIitemSize\fP. The \fIcompare\fP function given is used to compare
items, and when sorting occurs, it is passed pointers to the
two items to compare, as well as the \fIuserData\fP pointer given
to this function. The compare function must return a value
less than, greater than, or equal to 0 based on whether the
first item is less than, greater than, or equal to the second item.
