.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public License
.\" Version 1.0 (the "NPL"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the NPL.  You may obtain a copy of the NPL at
.\" http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/
.\" 
.\" Software distributed under the NPL is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the NPL
.\" for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
.\" NPL.
.\" 
.\" The Initial Developer of this code under the NPL is Netscape
.\" Communications Corporation.  Portions created by Netscape are
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation.  All Rights
.\" Reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" The following source code is part of the Microline Widget Library.
.\" The Microline widget library is made available to Mozilla developers
.\" under the Netscape Public License (NPL) by Neuron Data.  To learn
.\" more about Neuron Data, please visit the Neuron Data Home Page at
.\" http://www.neurondata.com.
.\"
.\"
.TH XmLTreeAddRows 3X "R1" "XML1" "XML"
.SH NAME
XmLTreeAddRows \- add rows to a Tree
.SH SYNTAX
void XmLTreeAddRows(\fIwidget\fP, \fIrows\fP, \fIcount\fP, \fIposition\fP)
.br
Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
XmLTreeRowDefinition *\fIrows\fP;
.br
int \fIcount\fP;
.br
int \fIposition\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Tree widget ID
.IP \fIrows\fP 1i
array definining rows to add
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
number of rows
.IP \fIposition\fP 1i
position of rows to add
.SH DESCRIPTION
Adds \fIcount\fP content rows to the Tree at the specified \fIposition\fP.
A position of 0 indicates the first position and a position of -1
specifies after the last position.
The row levels, expansion abilities, expansion states, strings and pixmaps
for the rows are defined by their value in the \fIrows\fP array passed to this
function.  Each item in the array defines a row to be added to the Tree.
The \fIpixmap\fP, \fIpixmask\fP and \fIstring\fPs defined will appear in
the first cell of the row.  The pixmap and pixmask values may be
XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP, in which case, the default pixmap
will be displayed.  If \fIexpands\fP is True for a row, the row
may be expanded by the user.  The \fIisExpanded\fP flag
indicates if a row is currently expanded (True) or not (False).
The XmString strings contained in the array are copied by the Tree
and should be freed when they are no longer used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XmLTree(3X) XmLTreeAddRow(3X)
