<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
	<title>For Internet Explorer Users</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>
<h1>For Internet Explorer Users</h1>

<div>If you've been using Microsoft&reg; Internet Explorer, you'll find that
  it's easy to begin using &brandFullName;.</div>
<div><strong>Note:</strong> This information applies to &brandFullName; for Windows and
  Mac OS.</div>

<div class="contentsBox">In this section:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#firebird_and_internet_explorer_terminology_differences">
      Terminology Differences</a></li>
    <li><a href="#about_your_ie_settings">About Your IE Settings</a></li>
    <li><a href="#firebirds_features">&brandShortName;'s Features</a></li>
    <li><a href="#keyboard_shortcuts">Keyboard Shortcuts</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

<h2 id="firebird_and_internet_explorer_terminology_differences">Terminology
  Differences</h2>

<table width="95%" border="1">
 <thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Internet Explorer</th>
    <th>&brandShortName;</th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Internet Options</td>
    <td> Options </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Temporary Internet Files</td>
    <td>Cache</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Favorites</td>
    <td>Bookmarks</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Address Bar</td>
    <td>Location Bar</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Refresh</td>
    <td>Reload</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Links Bar</td>
    <td>Bookmarks Toolbar</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Copy Shortcut</td>
    <td>Copy Link Location</td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>

<h2 id="about_your_ie_settings">About Your IE Favorites and Settings</h2>

<p>&brandShortName; has a new feature that imports your existing settings from
  Internet Explorer.  It will run when you first install &brandShortName; (and
  is also available later through <span class="menuPath">File &gt; Import</span>),
  and it attempts to import your IE Favorites, cookies, stored passwords, and a
  variety of other data.  This saves you time customizing &brandShortName; to fit
  your needs.</p>

<h2 id="firebirds_features">&brandShortName;'s Features</h2>
<div>
<ul>
  <li><strong>Tabbed Browsing</strong>: Instead of opening a separate browser
    window for each site you want to visit, you can open multiple sites within
    the same window and tab between them. You can also set a group of tabs as
    your home page.</li>
  <li><strong>Pop-up Window Controls</strong>: Lets you allow or suppress both
    popup and popunder windows.</li>
  <li><strong>Cookie Manager</strong>: Lets you change what &brandShortName; will
    do when accepting cookies.</li>
  <li><strong>Download Manager</strong>: Organizes your downloads by storing
    them in a single window to minimize clutter.  You have full access to
    download statistics without using unnecessary multiple windows for each
    download.</li>
  <li><strong>Image Manager</strong>: Enables you to disable images from certain
    web sites or disable them altogether. This is useful if you wish to decrease
    the amount of time it takes for web sites to load.</li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2 id="keyboard_shortcuts">Keyboard Shortcuts</h2>
<p>You will notice that Microsoft Internet Explorer and &brandShortName; share many of
  the same shortcut keys. For a full list of shortcut keys, see the
  <a href="shortcuts.xhtml">List of &brandShortName; Keyboard Shortcuts</a>.</p>

<div class="contentsBox"><em>17 August 2003</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; 2003-2004 Contributors to the Mozilla Help Viewer Project.</p>
</body>
</html>
