<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
    <!ENTITY % platformDTD SYSTEM "chrome://help/locale/platformStrings.dtd" >
    %platformDTD;
]>
<!--
Contributors:
  David Tenser <david.tenser@comhem.se> (original author)
  R.J. Keller <rlk@trfenv.com>
  Jeff Walden <jwalden+code@mit.edu>
-->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
	<title>&brandFullName; Menu Reference</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>

<h1>&brandFullName; Menu Reference</h1>
  <div>This menu reference describes each menu item in the main
    &brandFullName; window.</div>

  <div class="contentsBox">In this section:
    <ul>
      <li><a href="#file">File</a></li>
      <li><a href="#edit">Edit</a></li>
      <li><a href="#view">View</a></li>
      <li><a href="#go">Go</a></li>
      <li><a href="#bookmarks">Bookmarks</a></li>
      <li><a href="#tools">Tools</a></li>
      <li><a href="#help">Help</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>

<h2 id="file">File</h2>

  <h3 id="new_window">New Window</h3>
  <p>Opens a new &brandShortName; window.</p>

  <h3 id="new_tab">New Tab</h3>
  <p>Opens a new browser tab in the current &brandShortName; window.</p>

  <h3 id="open_location">Open Location...</h3>
  <p>Focuses on the &brandShortName; URL bar so you can type in a new location to
    visit.</p>

  <h3 id="open_file">Open File...</h3>
  <p>Displays an Open File dialog where you can select a file from your
    local disks or network. You can view many file types in &brandShortName;,
    including HTML/XML files, image files, text files and more.</p>

  <h3 id="close">Close (Window)</h3>
  <p>Closes the current window.</p>

  <h3 id="close_tab">Close Tab</h3>
  <p>Closes the current tab and selects the rightmost tab. This menu item is
    visible only if more than one browser tab is currently open.</p>

  <h3 id="save_page_as">Save Page As...</h3>
  <p>Saves the page you are currently browsing. You can choose to save the
    whole page (complete with graphics), just the current HTML page, or the
    page text only.</p>

  <h3 id="send_page">Send Link...</h3>
  <p>Opens an email composition window using your computer's default email program
    so you can send a message with a link to the current page. This feature is
    currently only available on Windows, Mac OS X and OS/2.</p>

  <h3 id="page_setup">Page Setup...</h3>
  <p>Displays a Page Setup dialog where you can specify printing settings such as
    margins, headers and footers, and page orientation.</p>

  <h3 id="print_preview">Print Preview (Windows and Linux only)</h3>
  <p>Displays a preview of how the current document will appear when printed. It
    reflects the settings in the Page Setup dialog and the page author's
    intentions.</p>

  <h3 id="print">Print...</h3>
  <p>Displays the Print dialog, where you can specify the number of printed copies,
    etc. Click <em>OK</em> to print the page.</p>

  <h3 id="import">Import...</h3>
  <p>Opens the Import Wizard dialog, which allows you to import &pref.plural;, bookmarks,
    history, passwords and other data from browsers like Microsoft Internet
    Explorer, Netscape, Mozilla or Opera.</p>

  <h3 id="work_offline">Work Offline</h3>
  <p>Toggles between online and offline mode. Offline mode allows you to view
    web pages you've previously visited without being connected to the
    Internet.</p>

  <h3 id="exit">
    <span class="win">Exit</span>
    <span class="noWin">Quit</span>
  </h3>
  <p>Closes all opened windows in &brandShortName;, including any active downloads,
    and exits &brandShortName; completely. If you happen to select this menu item with
    open tabs, windows, or downloads, &brandShortName; will ask you to confirm your
    choice to prevent accidental exits.</p>

<h2 id="edit">Edit</h2>

  <h3 id="undo">Undo</h3>
  <p>Undoes the last action in a text field. If you later decide you don't want to
    undo an action, use the Redo command.</p>

  <h3 id="redo">Redo</h3>
  <p>Redoes the last Undo command.</p>

  <h3 id="cut">Cut</h3>
  <p>Cuts the selected text from a text field and stores it in the clipboard. Paste
    the text elsewhere by using the Paste command.</p>

  <h3 id="copy">Copy</h3>
  <p>Copies the selected text to the clipboard. Paste the text in a text field by
    using the Paste command.</p>

  <h3 id="paste">Paste</h3>
  <p>Pastes text stored in the clipboard into a text field.</p>

  <h3 id="delete">Delete</h3>
  <p>Deletes the selected text from a text field.</p>

  <h3 id="select_all">Select All</h3>
  <p>Selects all text and other items on the page.</p>

  <h3 id="find_in_this_page">Find in This Page...</h3>
  <p>Displays the Find Toolbar at the bottom of the browser window.  Enter the
    text you wish to find in the toolbar, and as you type &brandShortName; will
    automatically find and select the first occurrence of the entered text on
    the page.  Click <em>Find Next</em> or <em>Find Previous</em> to find the
    text at other locations in the page, and click <em>Highlight</em> to
    highlight all occurrences of the text on the page.</p>

  <h3 id="find_again">Find Again</h3>
  <p>Searches for the next occurrence of the text specified when using the
  <em>Find in This Page...</em> command.</p>

  <h3 class="unix" id="prefs">&pref.pluralCaps;</h3>
  <p class="unix">Displays the <a href="prefs.xhtml">&pref.pluralCaps; window</a>,
    where you can change many &pref.plural; in &brandShortName;.</p>

<h2 id="view">View</h2>

  <h3 id="toolbars">Toolbars</h3>

    <h4 id="navigation_toolbar">Navigation Toolbar</h4>
    <p>Toggles the visibility of the navigation toolbar, which usually contains
      standard navigation buttons (Back, Forward, Stop, etc.).</p>

    <h4 id="bookmarks_toolbar">Bookmarks Toolbar</h4>
    <p>Toggles the visibility of the bookmarks toolbar, which contains bookmarks
      to various sites.</p>

    <h4 id="customize">Customize...</h4>
    <p>Displays the toolbar customization dialog.  You can drag and drop toolbar
      buttons to/from the toolbars here. You can also right-click on the
      navigation toolbar and select <em>Customize...</em> to show this dialog.</p>

  <h3 id="status_bar">Status Bar</h3>
  <p>Toggles the visibility of the status bar, located at the bottom of the window.
    The status bar displays useful information about the page but may not be
    needed by everyone.</p>

  <h3 id="sidebar">Sidebar</h3>
  <p>The Sidebar can display your bookmarks or the browsing history.  You can
    always close the Sidebar by clicking on the X in the upper-right
    corner.</p>

    <h4 id="bookmarks_sidebar">Bookmarks</h4>
    <p>Displays the Bookmarks Sidebar, which keeps your bookmarks visible all
      the time. This can be very useful if you use bookmarks often.</p>

    <h4 id="history_sidebar">History</h4>
    <p>Displays the History Sidebar, which keeps track of what sites you have
      visited. To change how many days a site should be remembered, select
      &pref.menuPath; and select the Privacy panel.</p>

  <h3 id="stop">Stop</h3>
  <p>Stops loading of the current page you're browsing. This is the same as
    clicking on the <em>Stop</em> button on the toolbar.</p>

  <h3 id="reload">Reload</h3>
  <p>Gets the most up-to-date version of the current page.  This is the same
    as clicking the <em>Reload</em> button on the toolbar.</p>

  <h3 id="text_size">Text Size</h3>
  <p>If the text on a web page is too small or too large, you can change it to
    a more comfortable size.</p>

    <h4 id="increase_text_size">Increase</h4>
    <p>Displays the text on the web page one size larger. You can also do this
      with the mouse (see <a href="mouse_shortcuts.xhtml">Mouse Shortcuts</a>
      for instructions).</p>

    <h4 id="decrease_text_size">Decrease</h4>
    <p>Displays the text on the web page one size smaller. You can also do this
      with the mouse (see <a href="mouse_shortcuts.xhtml">Mouse Shortcuts</a>
      for instructions).</p>

    <h4 id="reset_text_size">Normal</h4>
    <p>Displays the text on the web page at its normal size.</p>

  <h3 id="page_style">Page Style</h3>
  <p>Allows you to select a style for the current web page. By default, 
    &quot;Basic Page Style&quot; is selected unless the author specifies a
    different default.</p>

    <h4 id="no_style">No Style</h4>
    <p>Removes style formatting from the page.</p>

    <h4 id="basic_page_style">Basic Page Style</h4>
    <p>Displays the page with a general style specified by the author.</p>   

    <h4 id="alternate_style"></h4>
    <p>If the author has specified additional page styles, &brandShortName;
     will list them here for you to select.</p>

  <h3 id="character_encoding">Character Encoding</h3>
  <p>Allows you to manually change the character encoding on a web page.
    &brandShortName; usually does this automatically.</p>

  <h3 id="page_source">Page Source</h3>
  <p>Displays the source code for the current document. <!--A future version of
    &brandShortName; will be capable of launching an external program for
    viewing the source.--></p>

  <h3 id="full_screen">Full Screen</h3>
  <p>Displays the window in full screen. If you have the navigation toolbar
    hidden, you can always restore the window anyway by pressing <kbd>F11</kbd>.</p>

<h2 id="go">Go</h2>

  <p>The Go menu contains a list of the most recently visited web sites.</p>

  <h3 id="back">Back</h3>
  <p>Navigates back one page in history. This is the same as clicking on the
    <em>Back</em> button on the toolbar.</p>

  <h3 id="forward">Forward</h3>
  <p>Navigates forward one page in history. This is the same as clicking on
    the <em>Forward</em> button on the toolbar.</p>

  <h3 id="home">Home</h3>
  <p>Displays your home page. This is the same as clicking on the
    <em>Home</em> button on the navigation toolbar. To change the home page,
    select &pref.menuPath; and open the General panel. You
    can specify to use a blank page, the current page (or tab group), a
    bookmark, or a manually entered address.</p>

<h2 id="bookmarks">Bookmarks</h2>

  <p>This menu contains all your stored bookmarks.</p>

  <h3 id="add_to_bookmarks">Bookmark This Page...</h3>
  <p>Adds the current page to your bookmarks. A dialog will be displayed,
    allowing you to choose a title for the bookmark and specify where you
    want it to be stored.</p>

  <h3 id="manage_bookmarks">Manage Bookmarks...</h3>
  <p>Displays the Bookmark Manager, a window where you can modify your
    bookmarks. You can sort, rename and change the properties for your
    bookmarks as well as add, remove, and move them.</p>

<h2 id="tools">Tools</h2>

  <h3 id="web_search">Web Search</h3>
  <p>Highlights the Web Search box. You can then type in the terms you
    wish to find on the Web.</p>

  <h3 id="read_mail">Read Mail (Windows only)</h3>
  <p>Opens up your email program so you can read your email.</p>

  <h3 id="new_message">New Message... (Windows only)</h3>
  <p>Opens an email composition window using your computer's default email program
    so you can send a email message to somebody.</p>

  <h3 id="downloads">Downloads</h3>
  <p>Opens the Download Manager, where you can see the current, as well as
    finished downloads.</p>

  <h3 id="extensions">Extensions</h3>
  <p>Opens the Extension Manager, where you can see all extensions installed
    on this version of &brandShortName;. You can also choose to uninstall
    extensions from this dialog. For more information, see the
    <a href="customization.xhtml#extensions">Extensions</a> help topic.</p>

  <h3 id="themes">Themes</h3>
  <p>Opens the Theme Manager. From here, you can switch the current theme that
    &brandShortName; is using. You can also install and uninstall themes from
    this dialog. For more information, see the
    <a href="customization.xhtml#themes">Themes</a> help topic.</p>

  <h3 id="javascript_console">JavaScript Console</h3>
  <p>Opens the JavaScript Console, which tracks problems with JavaScript code.
    JavaScript is a scripting language commonly used to construct web pages.
    Programmers use JavaScript to make web pages more interactive; JavaScript
    is often used to dynamically validate forms and select buttons.</p>

  <h3 id="page_info">Page Info</h3>
  <p>Displays extensive information about the current web page, such as the
    document type, encoding, size, and security information.  The dialog also
    displays lists of the media and links used on the page.</p>

  <h3 class="noUnix" id="options">&pref.pluralCaps;</h3>
  <p class="noUnix">Displays the <a href="prefs.xhtml">&pref.pluralCaps; window</a>,
    where you can change many &pref.plural; in &brandShortName;.</p>

<!--XXX blah, blah, blah -->
<!--XXX Help contribs need to test Macs as well as Lin/Win -->
<!--XXX the Mac Window menu should be documented here -->

<h2 id="help">Help</h2>

  <h3 id="help_contents">Help Contents</h3>
  <p>Opens the &brandShortName; Help window, which contains useful information
    that can help you browse the web.</p>

  <h3 id="for_ie_users">For Internet Explorer Users (Windows and Mac only)</h3>
  <p>Opens this Help window displaying information that can
    help Internet Explorer users transition to &brandShortName;.</p>

  <!--h3 id="release_notes">Release Notes</h3>
  <p>Displays the release notes for the latest &brandShortName; release.</p-->

  <h3 id="promote">Promote &brandShortName;</h3>
  <p>Opens a web page that gives you information on how to promote
    &brandShortName;.</p>

  <h3 id="about_mozilla_firebird">About &brandFullName;</h3>
  <p>Displays a dialog box with information about &brandShortName;, including
    the current version and a brief list of credits.</p>

<div class="contentsBox"><em>25 October 2004</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; 2003-2004 Contributors to the Mozilla Help Viewer Project.</p>
</body>
</html>
