<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
    %brandDTD;
]
>
#
#Contributors:
#  Nilson Cain <nilson1690@netscape.net> (original author)

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
	<title>Profile Manager</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>

<h1>Profile Manager</h1>
<p>If you use the Internet at home and at work, you may want to have access to
  different sets of bookmarks, options, and browsing data. Similarly, family
  members may want to share the same copy of &brandFullName; but keep their
  Internet identities separate.</p>

<p>The Profile Manager lets you create, edit, and delete profiles, each with its
  own bookmarks, options, and browsing data. &brandShortName; automatically
  creates a default profile upon first install.  If you create one or more
  additional profiles, you will be asked which you want to use each time you launch
  &brandShortName;.</p>

<div class="contentsBox">
  In this section:
  <div class="makeLeftMargin">
    <a href="#creating_a_new_profile">Creating a New Profile</a>
    <a href="#deleting_or_renaming_a_profile">Deleting or Renaming a Profile</a>
  </div>
</div>

<h2 id="creating_a_new_profile">Creating a New Profile</h2>

<div>To create a profile:
<ol>
  <li>Open the Profile Manager:
  <ul>
    <li><strong>Windows</strong>: from Windows, select <span class="menuPath">Start menu
      &gt; Run</span>, and then browse to the folder where you installed &brandShortName;.
      Type in <kbd>Firefox.exe -P</kbd>, then click <em>OK</em>.</li>
    <li><strong>Mac OS</strong>: open the &brandShortName; folder and then double-click the Profile
      Manager.</li>
    <li><strong>Linux</strong>: type <kbd>./firefox -P</kbd> at the command line.</li>
  </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Click <em>Create Profile</em>, read the Profile description, and then click
    <em>Next</em>.</li>
  <li>Enter a profile name. This can be anything you like, such as your real name
    or a name related to the profile's use, such as "School."</li>
  <li>Accept the default location for the new profile or click the <em>Choose
    Folder</em> button and navigate to the location you want.</li>
  <li>If you have Language Packs or Regional Content Packs installed, click <em>Region
    Selection</em> and choose the Language/Content set you want.</li>
  <li>Click <em>Finish</em>.</li>
</ol>
</div>
<p>The opening screen of the Profile Manager will reappear with the new profile
  listed and highlighted.</p>

<h2 id="deleting_or_renaming_a_profile">Deleting or Renaming a Profile</h2>

<div>You may want to delete profiles that you don't normally use. To delete or
  rename an existing profile:

<ol>
   <li>Open the Profile Manager:
  <ul>
    <li><strong>Windows</strong>: from Windows, select <span class="menuPath">Start menu
      &gt; Run</span>, and then browse to the folder where you installed &brandShortName;.
      Type in <kbd>Firefox.exe -P</kbd>, then click <em>OK</em>.</li>
    <li><strong>Mac OS</strong>: open the &brandShortName; folder and then double-click the Profile
      Manager.</li>
    <li><strong>Linux</strong>: type <kbd>./firefox -P</kbd> at the command line.</li>
  </ul>
  </li>
  <li>To delete a profile, select its name and click <em>Delete Profile</em>.</li>
  <li>To rename a profile, select its name, click <em>Rename Profile</em>, and follow the
    instructions.</li>
</ol>
</div>

<div class="contentsBox"><em>04 September 2003</em></div>
<p>Copyright &copy; 2003 Contributors to the Firebird Help Project.</p>
</body>
</html>
