mobile/android/docs/geckoview/contributor/native-debugging.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Debugging Native Code
summary: How to set up native debugging for GeckoView using Android Studio.
tags: [GeckoView,Gecko,mozilla,android,WebView,mobile,debugging,native,android studio]
nav_exclude: true
exclude: true
---
## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

# Debugging Native Code in Android Studio.
If you want to work on the C++ code that powers GeckoView, you will need to be able to perform native debugging inside Android Studio. This article will guide you through how to do that. 

If you need to get set up with GeckoView for the first time, follow the [Quick Start Guide](geckoview-quick-start).

## Perform a debug build of Gecko.
1. Edit your `mozconfig` file and add the following lines. These will ensure that the build includes debug checks and symbols.

```
ac_add_options --enable-debug
ac_add_options --with-android-ndk="<path>/.mozbuild/android-ndk-r17b"
```
2. Ensure that the following lines are commented out in your `mozconfig` if present. `./mach configure` will not allow artifact builds to be enabled when generating a debug build.

```
# ac_add_options --enable-artifact-builds
```
3. To be absolutely sure that Android Studio will pick up your debug symbols, the first time you perform a debug build it is best to clobber your `MOZ_OBJDIR`. Subsequent builds should not need this step.

```bash
./mach clobber
```
4. Build as usual. Because this is a debug build, and because you have clobbered your `MOZ_OBJDIR`, this will take a long time. Subsequent builds will be incremental and take less time, so go make yourself a cup of your favourite beverage.

```bash
./mach build
```
## Set up lldb to find your symbols
Edit your `~/.lldbinit` file (or create one if one does not already exist) and add the following lines. 

The first line tells LLDB to enable inline breakpoints - Android Studio will need this if you want to use visual breakpoints. 

The remaining lines tell LLDB where to go to find the symbols for debugging.

```bash
settings set target.inline-breakpoint-strategy always
settings append target.exec-search-paths <PATH>/objdir-android-opt/toolkit/library/build
settings append target.exec-search-paths <PATH>/objdir-android-opt/mozglue/build
```
# Set up Android Studio to perform native debugging.

1. Edit the configuration that you want to debug by clicking `Run -> Edit Configurations...` and selecting the correct configuration from the options on the left hand side of the resulting window.
2. Select the `Debugger` tab.
3. Select `Dual` from the `Debug type` select box. Dual will allow debugging of both native and Java code in the same session.  It is possible to use `Native`, but it will only allow for debugging native code, and it's frequently necessary to break in the Java code that configures Gecko and child processes in order to attach debuggers at the correct times.
4. Under `Symbol Directories`, add a new path pointing to `<PATH>/objdir-android-opt/toolkit/library/build`, the same path that you entered into your `.lldbinit` file.
5. Select `Apply` and `OK` to close the window.

# Debug Native code in Android Studio

1. The first time you are running a debug session for your app, it's best to start from a completely clean build. Click `Build -> Rebuild Project` to clean and rebuild. You can also choose to remove any existing builds from your emulator to be completely sure, but this may not be necessary.
2. If using Android Studio visual breakpoints, set your breakpoints in your native code. 
3. Run the app in debug mode as usual.
4. When debugging Fennec or geckoview_example, you will almost immediately hit a breakpoint in `ElfLoader.cpp`. This is expected. If you are not using Android Studio visual breakpoints, you can set your breakpoints here using the lldb console that is available now this breakpoint has been hit. To set a breakpoint, select the app tab (if running Dual, there will also be an `<app> java` tab) from the debug window, and then select the `lldb` console tab. Type the following into the console:

```lldb
b <file>.cpp:<line number>
```
5. Once your breakpoints have been set, click the continue execution button to move beyond the `ElfLoader` breakpoint and your newly set native breakpoints should be hit. Debug as usual.

## Attaching debuggers to content and other child processes

Internally, GeckoView has a multi-process architecture.  The main Gecko process lives in the main Android process, but content rendering and some other functions live in child processes.  This balances load, ensures certain critical security properties, and allows GeckoView to recover if content processes become unresponsive or crash.  However, it's generally delicate to debug child processes because they come and go.

The general approach is to make the Java code in the child process that you want to debug wait for a Java debugger at startup, and then to connect such a Java debugger manually from the Android Studio UI.

[Bug 1522318](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1522318) added environment variables that makes GeckoView wait for Java debuggers to attach, making this debug process more developer-friendly.  See [Configuring GeckoView for Automation](../consumer/docs/automation) for instructions on how to set environment variables that configure GeckoView's runtime environment.

### Making processes wait for a Java debugger

The following environment variable makes the main (Gecko) process wait for a Java debugger to connect:

```shell
MOZ_DEBUG_WAIT_FOR_JAVA_DEBUGGER=1
```

This is a superset of Android Studio's built-in debugging support so it's not particularly useful (unless you want to attach a different jdwp debugger).

The following environment variable makes every child process wait for a Java debugger to connect:

```shell
MOZ_DEBUG_CHILD_WAIT_FOR_JAVA_DEBUGGER=
```

Set `MOZ_DEBUG_CHILD_WAIT_FOR_JAVA_DEBUGGER=suffix` in the environment to make child processes with an Android process name ending with `suffix` wait for a Java debugger to connect.  For example, the following environment variable makes every child content process wait for a Java debugger to connect:

```shell
MOZ_DEBUG_CHILD_WAIT_FOR_JAVA_DEBUGGER=:tab
```

### Attaching a Java debugger to a waiting child process

This is standard: follow the [Android Studio instructions](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/index.html#attach-debugger).  You must attach a Java debugger, so you almost certainly want to attach a `Dual` debugger and you definitely can't attach only a `Native` debugger.

Determining the correct process to attach to is a little tricky because the mapping from process ID (pid) to process name is not always clear.  Gecko content child processes are suffixed `:tab` at this time.

If you attach `Dual` debuggers to both the main process and a content child process, you will have four (4!) debug tabs to manage in Android Studio, which is awkward.  Android Studio doesn't appear to configure attached debuggers in the same way that it configures debuggers connecting to launched Run Configurations, so you may need to manually configure search paths -- i.e., you may need to invoke the contents of your `lldbinit` file in the appropriate `lldb` console by hand, using an invocation like `command source /absolute/path/to/topobjdir/lldbinit`.

Android Studio also doesn't appear to support targeting breakpoints from the UI (say, from clicking in a gutter) to specific debug tabs, so you may also need to set breakpoints in the appropriate `lldb` console by hand.

Managing more debug tabs may require different approaches.

Commit message:

Bug 1605808 - Document `./mach run --setenv` for GeckoView debugging. r=snorp
Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D58178

--HG--
extra : moz-landing-system : lando

mobile/android/docs/geckoview/contributor/native-debugging.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Debugging Native Code
summary: How to set up native debugging for GeckoView using Android Studio.
tags: [GeckoView,Gecko,mozilla,android,WebView,mobile,debugging,native,android studio]
nav_exclude: true
exclude: true
---
## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

# Debugging Native Code in Android Studio.
If you want to work on the C++ code that powers GeckoView, you will need to be able to perform native debugging inside Android Studio. This article will guide you through how to do that.

If you need to get set up with GeckoView for the first time, follow the [Quick Start Guide](geckoview-quick-start).

## Perform a debug build of Gecko.
1. Edit your `mozconfig` file and add the following lines. These will ensure that the build includes debug checks and symbols.

```
ac_add_options --enable-debug
ac_add_options --with-android-ndk="<path>/.mozbuild/android-ndk-r17b"
```
2. Ensure that the following lines are commented out in your `mozconfig` if present. `./mach configure` will not allow artifact builds to be enabled when generating a debug build.

```
# ac_add_options --enable-artifact-builds
```
3. To be absolutely sure that Android Studio will pick up your debug symbols, the first time you perform a debug build it is best to clobber your `MOZ_OBJDIR`. Subsequent builds should not need this step.

```bash
./mach clobber
```
4. Build as usual. Because this is a debug build, and because you have clobbered your `MOZ_OBJDIR`, this will take a long time. Subsequent builds will be incremental and take less time, so go make yourself a cup of your favourite beverage.

```bash
./mach build
```
## Set up lldb to find your symbols
Edit your `~/.lldbinit` file (or create one if one does not already exist) and add the following lines.

The first line tells LLDB to enable inline breakpoints - Android Studio will need this if you want to use visual breakpoints.

The remaining lines tell LLDB where to go to find the symbols for debugging.

```bash
settings set target.inline-breakpoint-strategy always
settings append target.exec-search-paths <PATH>/objdir-android-opt/toolkit/library/build
settings append target.exec-search-paths <PATH>/objdir-android-opt/mozglue/build
```
# Set up Android Studio to perform native debugging.

1. Edit the configuration that you want to debug by clicking `Run -> Edit Configurations...` and selecting the correct configuration from the options on the left hand side of the resulting window.
2. Select the `Debugger` tab.
3. Select `Dual` from the `Debug type` select box. Dual will allow debugging of both native and Java code in the same session.  It is possible to use `Native`, but it will only allow for debugging native code, and it's frequently necessary to break in the Java code that configures Gecko and child processes in order to attach debuggers at the correct times.
4. Under `Symbol Directories`, add a new path pointing to `<PATH>/objdir-android-opt/toolkit/library/build`, the same path that you entered into your `.lldbinit` file.
5. Select `Apply` and `OK` to close the window.

# Debug Native code in Android Studio

1. The first time you are running a debug session for your app, it's best to start from a completely clean build. Click `Build -> Rebuild Project` to clean and rebuild. You can also choose to remove any existing builds from your emulator to be completely sure, but this may not be necessary.
2. If using Android Studio visual breakpoints, set your breakpoints in your native code.
3. Run the app in debug mode as usual.
4. When debugging Fennec or geckoview_example, you will almost immediately hit a breakpoint in `ElfLoader.cpp`. This is expected. If you are not using Android Studio visual breakpoints, you can set your breakpoints here using the lldb console that is available now this breakpoint has been hit. To set a breakpoint, select the app tab (if running Dual, there will also be an `<app> java` tab) from the debug window, and then select the `lldb` console tab. Type the following into the console:

```lldb
b <file>.cpp:<line number>
```
5. Once your breakpoints have been set, click the continue execution button to move beyond the `ElfLoader` breakpoint and your newly set native breakpoints should be hit. Debug as usual.

## Attaching debuggers to content and other child processes

Internally, GeckoView has a multi-process architecture.  The main Gecko process lives in the main Android process, but content rendering and some other functions live in child processes.  This balances load, ensures certain critical security properties, and allows GeckoView to recover if content processes become unresponsive or crash.  However, it's generally delicate to debug child processes because they come and go.

The general approach is to make the Java code in the child process that you want to debug wait for a Java debugger at startup, and then to connect such a Java debugger manually from the Android Studio UI.

[Bug 1522318](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1522318) added environment variables that makes GeckoView wait for Java debuggers to attach, making this debug process more developer-friendly.  See [Configuring GeckoView for Automation](../consumer/docs/automation) for instructions on how to set environment variables that configure GeckoView's runtime environment.

### Making processes wait for a Java debugger

The following environment variable makes the main (Gecko) process wait for a Java debugger to connect:

```shell
MOZ_DEBUG_WAIT_FOR_JAVA_DEBUGGER=1
```

This is a superset of Android Studio's built-in debugging support so it's not particularly useful (unless you want to attach a different jdwp debugger).

The following environment variable makes every child process wait for a Java debugger to connect:

```shell
MOZ_DEBUG_CHILD_WAIT_FOR_JAVA_DEBUGGER=
```

Set `MOZ_DEBUG_CHILD_WAIT_FOR_JAVA_DEBUGGER=suffix` in the environment to make child processes with an Android process name ending with `suffix` wait for a Java debugger to connect.  For example, the following environment variable makes every child content process wait for a Java debugger to connect:

```shell
MOZ_DEBUG_CHILD_WAIT_FOR_JAVA_DEBUGGER=:tab
```

An easy way to set this is with `./mach run`:

```shell
./mach run --setenv MOZ_DEBUG_CHILD_WAIT_FOR_JAVA_DEBUGGER=:tab
```

### Attaching a Java debugger to a waiting child process

This is standard: follow the [Android Studio instructions](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/index.html#attach-debugger).  You must attach a Java debugger, so you almost certainly want to attach a `Dual` debugger and you definitely can't attach only a `Native` debugger.

Determining the correct process to attach to is a little tricky because the mapping from process ID (pid) to process name is not always clear.  Gecko content child processes are suffixed `:tab` at this time.

If you attach `Dual` debuggers to both the main process and a content child process, you will have four (4!) debug tabs to manage in Android Studio, which is awkward.  Android Studio doesn't appear to configure attached debuggers in the same way that it configures debuggers connecting to launched Run Configurations, so you may need to manually configure search paths -- i.e., you may need to invoke the contents of your `lldbinit` file in the appropriate `lldb` console by hand, using an invocation like `command source /absolute/path/to/topobjdir/lldbinit`.

Android Studio also doesn't appear to support targeting breakpoints from the UI (say, from clicking in a gutter) to specific debug tabs, so you may also need to set breakpoints in the appropriate `lldb` console by hand.

Managing more debug tabs may require different approaches.
