<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

# ***** BEGIN LICENSE BLOCK *****
# Version: MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1
#
# The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version
# 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
# http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/
#
# Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
# WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License
# for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
# License.
#
# The Original Code is aboutSupport.xhtml.
#
# The Initial Developer of the Original Code is
# Mozilla Corporation
# Portions created by the Initial Developer are Copyright (C) 2009
# the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved.
#
# Contributor(s):
#   Curtis Bartley <cbartley@mozilla.com>
#
# Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of
# either the GNU General Public License Version 2 or later (the "GPL"), or
# the GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1 or later (the "LGPL"),
# in which case the provisions of the GPL or the LGPL are applicable instead
# of those above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only
# under the terms of either the GPL or the LGPL, and not to allow others to
# use your version of this file under the terms of the MPL, indicate your
# decision by deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice
# and other provisions required by the GPL or the LGPL. If you do not delete
# the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under
# the terms of any one of the MPL, the GPL or the LGPL.
#
# ***** END LICENSE BLOCK *****

<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY % htmlDTD PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"> %htmlDTD;
  <!ENTITY % globalDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/global.dtd"> %globalDTD;
  <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd"> %brandDTD;
  <!ENTITY % aboutSupportDTD SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/aboutSupport.dtd"> %aboutSupportDTD;
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>&aboutSupport.pageTitle;</title>

    <style type="text/css"><![CDATA[

html {
  background-color: -moz-Field;
  color: -moz-FieldText;
  font: message-box;
}

body {
  text-align: justify;
  width: 90%;
  margin-left: 5%;
  margin-right: 5%;
}

.page-subtitle {
  margin-bottom: 3em; 
}

.major-section {
  margin-top: 2em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
  font-size: large;
  text-align: start;
  font-weight: bold;
}

table {
  background-color: -moz-Dialog;
  color: -moz-DialogText;
  font: message-box;
  text-align: start;
  width: 100%;
  border: 1px solid ThreeDShadow;
  border-spacing: 0px;
}

th, td {
  border: 1px dotted ThreeDShadow;
  padding: 3px;
}

thead th {
  text-align: center;
}

th {
  text-align: start;
  background-color: Highlight;
  color: HighlightText;
}

th.column {
  white-space: nowrap;
  width: 0px; 
}

td {
  text-align: start;
  border-top: 1px dotted ThreeDShadow;
}

.prefs-table {
  width: 100%;
  table-layout: fixed;
}

.pref-name {
  width: 70%;
  white-space: nowrap;
  overflow: hidden;
}

.pref-value {
  width: 30%;
  white-space: nowrap;
  overflow: hidden;
}

    ]]></style>

    <script type="application/javascript;version=1.7"><![CDATA[

const Cc = Components.classes;
const Ci = Components.interfaces;

// We use a preferences whitelist to make sure we only show preferences that
// are useful for support and won't compromise the user's privacy.  Note that
// entries are *prefixes*: for example, "accessibility." applies to all prefs
// under the "accessibility.*" branch.
const Whitelist = [
  "accessibility.",
  "browser.fixup.",
  "browser.history_expire_",
  "browser.link.open_newwindow",
  "browser.mousewheel.",
  "browser.places.",
  "browser.startup.homepage",
  "browser.tabs.",
  "browser.zoom.",
  "dom.",
  "extensions.checkCompatibility",
  "extensions.lastAppVersion",
  "font.",
  "general.useragent.",
  "gfx.color_management.mode",
  "javascript.",
  "keyword.", 
  "layout.css.dpi",
  "network.",
  "places.",
  "print.",
  "privacy.",
  "security."
];

// The blacklist, unlike the whitelist, is a list of regular expressions.
const Blacklist = [
  /^print[.]print_to_filename$/,
  /^print[.].*[.]print_to_filename$/,
  /^network[.]proxy[.].*$/
];

window.onload = function () {
  // Get the FUEL Application object.
  let Application = Cc["@mozilla.org/fuel/application;1"]
                      .getService(Ci.fuelIApplication);

  // Get the support URL.
  let urlFormatter = Cc["@mozilla.org/toolkit/URLFormatterService;1"]
                       .getService(Ci.nsIURLFormatter);
  let supportUrl = urlFormatter.formatURLPref("app.support.baseURL");

  // Update the application basics section.
  document.getElementById("application-box").textContent = Application.name;
  document.getElementById("version-box").textContent = Application.version;
  document.getElementById("supportLink").href = supportUrl;

  // Update the other sections.
  populateExtensionsSection();
  populatePreferencesSection();
}

function populateExtensionsSection() {
  let extensions = Application.extensions.all;
  let trExtensions = [];
  for (let i = 0; i < extensions.length; i++) {
    let extension = extensions[i];
    let tr = createParentElement("tr", [
      createElement("td", extension.name),
      createElement("td", extension.version),
      createElement("td", extension.enabled),
      createElement("td", extension.id),
    ]);
    trExtensions.push(tr);
  }
  appendChildren(document.getElementById("extensions-tbody"), trExtensions);
}

function populatePreferencesSection() {
  let modifiedPrefs = getModifiedPrefs();

  function comparePrefs(pref1, pref2) {
    if (pref1.name < pref2.name)
      return -1;
    if (pref1.name > pref2.name)
      return 1;
    return 0;
  }

  let sortedPrefs = modifiedPrefs.sort(comparePrefs);

  let trPrefs = [];
  for each (let pref in sortedPrefs) {
    let tdName = createElement("td", pref.name, "pref-name");
    let tdValue = createElement("td", formatPrefValue(pref.value), "pref-value");
    let tr = createParentElement("tr", [tdName, tdValue]);
    trPrefs.push(tr);
  }

  appendChildren(document.getElementById("prefs-tbody"), trPrefs);
}

function formatPrefValue(prefValue) {
  // Some pref values are really long and don't have spaces.  This can cause
  // problems when copying and pasting into some WYSIWYG editors.  In general
  // the exact contents of really long pref values aren't particularly useful,
  // so we truncate them to some reasonable length. 
  let maxPrefValueLen = 120;
  let text = "" + prefValue;
  if (text.length > maxPrefValueLen)
    text = text.substring(0, maxPrefValueLen) + "…";
  return text;
}

function getModifiedPrefs() {
  // We use the low-level prefs API to identify prefs that have been
  // modified, rather that Application.prefs.all since the latter is
  // much, much slower.  Application.prefs.all also gets slower each
  // time it's called.  See bug 517312.
  let prefService = Cc["@mozilla.org/preferences-service;1"]
                      .getService(Ci.nsIPrefService);
  let prefRootBranch = prefService.getBranch("");
  let prefNames = getWhitelistedPrefNames(prefRootBranch);
  let prefs = [Application.prefs.get(prefName)
                      for each (prefName in prefNames)
                          if (prefRootBranch.prefHasUserValue(prefName)
                            && !isBlacklisted(prefName))];
  return prefs;
}

function getWhitelistedPrefNames(prefRootBranch) {
  let results = [];
  for each (let prefStem in Whitelist) {
    let prefNames = prefRootBranch.getChildList(prefStem, {});
    results = results.concat(prefNames);
  }
  return results;
}

function isBlacklisted(prefName) {
  return Blacklist.some(function (re) {return re.test(prefName);});
}

function createParentElement(tagName, childElems) {
  let elem = document.createElement(tagName);
  appendChildren(elem, childElems);
  return elem;
}

function createElement(tagName, textContent, opt_class) {
  let elem = document.createElement(tagName);
  elem.textContent = textContent;
  elem.className = opt_class || "";
  return elem; 
}

function appendChildren(parentElem, childNodes) {
  for (let i = 0; i < childNodes.length; i++)
    parentElem.appendChild(childNodes[i]);
}

function copyContentsToClipboard() {
  // Get the HTML and text representations for the important part of the page.
  let contentsDiv = document.getElementById("contents");
  let dataHtml = contentsDiv.innerHTML;
  let dataText = createTextForElement(contentsDiv);

  // We can't use plain strings, we have to use nsSupportsString.
  let supportsStringClass = Cc["@mozilla.org/supports-string;1"];
  let ssHtml = supportsStringClass.createInstance(Ci.nsISupportsString);
  let ssText = supportsStringClass.createInstance(Ci.nsISupportsString);

  let transferable = Cc["@mozilla.org/widget/transferable;1"]
                       .createInstance(Ci.nsITransferable);  

  // Add the HTML flavor.
  transferable.addDataFlavor("text/html");
  ssHtml.data = dataHtml;
  transferable.setTransferData("text/html", ssHtml, dataHtml.length * 2);

  // Add the plain text flavor.
  transferable.addDataFlavor("text/unicode");
  ssText.data = dataText;
  transferable.setTransferData("text/unicode", ssText, dataText.length * 2);

  // Store the data into the clipboard.
  let clipboard = Cc["@mozilla.org/widget/clipboard;1"]
                    .getService(Ci.nsIClipboard);
  clipboard.setData(transferable, null, clipboard.kGlobalClipboard);        
}

// Return the plain text representation of an element.  Do a little bit
// of pretty-printing to make it human-readable.
function createTextForElement(elem) {
  // Generate the initial text.
  let textFragmentAccumulator = [];
  generateTextForElement(elem, "", textFragmentAccumulator);
  let text = textFragmentAccumulator.join("");

  // Trim extraneous whitespace before newlines, then squash extraneous
  // blank lines.
  text = text.replace(/[ \t]+\n/g, "\n");
  text = text.replace(/\n\n\n+/g, "\n\n");
  
  // Actual CR/LF pairs are needed for some Windows text editors.
  text = text.replace(/\n/g, "\r\n");

  return text;
}

function generateTextForElement(elem, indent, textFragmentAccumulator) {
  // Add a little extra spacing around most elements.
  if (elem.tagName != "td")
    textFragmentAccumulator.push("\n"); 

  // Generate the text representation for each child node.
  let node = elem.firstChild;
  while (node) {

    if (node.nodeType == Node.TEXT_NODE) {
      // Text belonging to this element uses its indentation level.
      generateTextForTextNode(node, indent, textFragmentAccumulator);
    }
    else if (node.nodeType == Node.ELEMENT_NODE) {
      // Recurse on the child element with an extra level of indentation.
      generateTextForElement(node, indent + "  ", textFragmentAccumulator); 
    }

    // Advance!
    node = node.nextSibling;
  }
}

function generateTextForTextNode(node, indent, textFragmentAccumulator) {
  // If the text node is the first of a run of text nodes, then start
  // a new line and add the initial indentation.
  let prevNode = node.previousSibling;
  if (!prevNode || prevNode.nodeType == Node.TEXT_NODE)
    textFragmentAccumulator.push("\n" + indent);

  // Trim the text node's text content and add proper indentation after 
  // any internal line breaks.  
  let text = node.textContent.trim().replace("\n[ \t]*", "\n" + indent);
  textFragmentAccumulator.push(text);
}

function openProfileDirectory() {
  // Get the profile directory.
  let propertiesService = Cc["@mozilla.org/file/directory_service;1"]
                            .getService(Ci.nsIProperties);
  let currProfD = propertiesService.get("ProfD", Ci.nsIFile);
  let profileDir = currProfD.path;

  // Show the profile directory.
  let nsLocalFile = Components.Constructor("@mozilla.org/file/local;1",
                                           "nsILocalFile", "initWithPath");
  new nsLocalFile(profileDir).reveal();
}

    ]]></script>

  </head>

  <body dir="&locale.dir;">

    <h1>
      &aboutSupport.pageTitle;
    </h1>

    <div class="page-subtitle">
        &aboutSupport.pageSubtitle;
    </div>

    <div>
      <button onclick="copyContentsToClipboard()">
        &aboutSupport.copyToClipboard.label;
      </button>
    </div>

    <div id="contents">

      <!-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -->

      <h2 class="major-section">
        &aboutSupport.appBasicsTitle;
      </h2>
      
      <table>
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <th class="column">
              &aboutSupport.appBasicsName;
            </th>

            <td id="application-box">
            </td>
          </tr>
            
          <tr>
            <th class="column">
              &aboutSupport.appBasicsVersion;
            </th>

            <td id="version-box">
            </td>
          </tr>
            
          <tr>
            <th class="column">
              &aboutSupport.appBasicsProfileDir;
            </th>

            <td>
              <button onclick="openProfileDirectory()">
#ifdef XP_MACOSX
                &aboutSupport.showMac.label;
#else
                &aboutSupport.show.label;
#endif
               </button>
            </td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <th class="column">
              &aboutSupport.appBasicsPlugins;
            </th>

            <td>
              <a href="about:plugins">about:plugins</a>
            </td>
          </tr>
            
          <tr>
            <th class="column">
              &aboutSupport.appBasicsBuildConfig;
            </th>

            <td>
              <a href="about:buildconfig">about:buildconfig</a>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>

      <!-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -->

      <h2 class="major-section">
        &aboutSupport.extensionsTitle;
      </h2>

      <table>
        <thead>
          <tr>
            <th>
              &aboutSupport.extensionName;
            </th>
            <th>
              &aboutSupport.extensionVersion;
            </th>
            <th>
              &aboutSupport.extensionEnabled;
            </th>
            <th>
              &aboutSupport.extensionId;
            </th>
          </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody id="extensions-tbody">
        </tbody>
      </table>

      <!-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -->

      <h2 class="major-section">
        &aboutSupport.modifiedPrefsTitle;
      </h2>

      <table class="prefs-table">
        <thead>
          <th class="name">
            &aboutSupport.modifiedPrefsName;
          </th>
          
          <th class="value">
            &aboutSupport.modifiedPrefsValue;
          </th>
        </thead>

        <tbody id="prefs-tbody">
        </tbody>
      </table>

      <!-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -->

    </div>

  </body>

</html>
