<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

# ***** BEGIN LICENSE BLOCK *****
# Version: MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1
#
# The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version
# 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
# http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/
#
# Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
# WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License
# for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
# License.
#
# The Original Code is Firefox Sync.
#
# The Initial Developer of the Original Code is
# Mozilla Foundation.
# Portions created by the Initial Developer are Copyright (C) 2010
# the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved.
#
# Contributor(s):
#   Philipp von Weitershausen <philipp@weitershausen.de>
#
# Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of
# either the GNU General Public License Version 2 or later (the "GPL"), or
# the GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1 or later (the "LGPL"),
# in which case the provisions of the GPL or the LGPL are applicable instead
# of those above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only
# under the terms of either the GPL or the LGPL, and not to allow others to
# use your version of this file under the terms of the MPL, indicate your
# decision by deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice
# and other provisions required by the GPL or the LGPL. If you do not delete
# the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under
# the terms of any one of the MPL, the GPL or the LGPL.
#
# ***** END LICENSE BLOCK *****

<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY % htmlDTD PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
  %htmlDTD;
  <!ENTITY % syncBrandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/syncBrand.dtd">
  %syncBrandDTD;
  <!ENTITY % syncKeyDTD SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/syncKey.dtd">
  %syncKeyDTD;
]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>&syncKey.page.title;</title>
  <style type="text/css">
    #synckey { font-size: 150% }
    footer { font-size: 70% }
# Bug 575675: Need to have an a:visited rule in a chrome document.
    a:visited { color: purple; }
  </style>
</head>

<body>
<h1>&syncKey.page.title;</h1>

<p id="synckey">SYNCKEY</p>

<p>&syncKey.page.description;</p>

<div id="column1">
  <h2>&syncKey.keepItSecret.heading;</h2>
  <p>&syncKey.keepItSecret.description;</p>
</div>

<div id="column2">
  <h2>&syncKey.keepItSafe.heading;</h2>
  <p><em>&syncKey.keepItSafe1.description;</em>&syncKey.keepItSafe2.description;<em>&syncKey.keepItSafe3.description;</em>&syncKey.keepItSafe4.description;</p>
</div>

<p>&syncKey.findOutMore1.label;<a href="https://services.mozilla.com">https://services.mozilla.com</a>&syncKey.findOutMore2.label;</p>

<footer>
 &syncKey.footer1.label;<a id="tosLink" href="termsURL">termsURL</a>&syncKey.footer2.label;<a id="ppLink" href="privacyURL">privacyURL</a>&syncKey.footer3.label;
</footer>

</body>
</html>
