<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY % htmlDTD PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
  %htmlDTD;
  <!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://branding/locale/brand.dtd">
  %brandDTD;
  <!ENTITY % securityPrefsDTD SYSTEM "chrome://browser/locale/preferences/security.dtd">
  %securityPrefsDTD;
  <!ENTITY % aboutRightsDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/aboutRights.dtd">
  %aboutRightsDTD;
]>
# ***** BEGIN LICENSE BLOCK *****
# Version: MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1
#
# The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version
# 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
# http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/
#
# Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
# WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License
# for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
# License.
#
# The Original Code is mozilla.org code.
#
# The Initial Developer of the Original Code is
# Gervase Markham.
# Portions created by the Initial Developer are Copyright (C) 2008
# the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved.
#
# Contributor(s):
#   Justin Dolske <dolske@mozilla.com>
#
# Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of
# either the GNU General Public License Version 2 or later (the "GPL"), or
# the GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1 or later (the "LGPL"),
# in which case the provisions of the GPL or the LGPL are applicable instead
# of those above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only
# under the terms of either the GPL or the LGPL, and not to allow others to
# use your version of this file under the terms of the MPL, indicate your
# decision by deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice
# and other provisions required by the GPL or the LGPL. If you do not delete
# the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under
# the terms of any one of the MPL, the GPL or the LGPL.
#
# ***** END LICENSE BLOCK *****

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>
  <title>&rights.pagetitle;</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://global/skin/about.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body id="your-rights" dir="&rights.locale-direction;" class="aboutPageWideContainer">

<h1>&rights.intro-header;</h1>

<p>&rights.intro;</p>

<ul>
  <li>&rights.intro-point1a;<a href="http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/">&rights.intro-point1b;</a>&rights.intro-point1c;</li>
# Point 2 discusses Mozilla trademarks, and isn't needed when the build is unbranded.
# Point 3 discusses privacy policy, unbranded builds get a placeholder (for the vendor to replace)
# Point 4 discusses web service terms, unbranded builds gets a placeholder (for the vendor to replace)
  <li>&rights.intro-point2-a;<a href="http://www.mozilla.org/foundation/trademarks/policy.html">&rights.intro-point2-b;</a>&rights.intro-point2-c;</li>
  <li>&rights.intro-point2.5;</li>
  <li>&rights2.intro-point3a;<a href="http://www.mozilla.com/legal/privacy/">&rights2.intro-point3b;</a>&rights.intro-point3c;</li>
  <li>&rights2.intro-point4a;<a href="about:rights#webservices" onclick="showServices();">&rights.intro-point4b;</a>&rights.intro-point4c;</li>
</ul>

<div id="webservices-container">
  <a name="webservices"/>
  <h3>&rights2.webservices-header;</h3>

  <p>&rights2.webservices-a;<a href="about:rights#disabling-webservices" onclick="showDisablingServices();">&rights2.webservices-b;</a>&rights2.webservices-c;</p>

  <div id="disabling-webservices-container" style="margin-left:40px;">
    <a name="disabling-webservices"/>
    <p><strong>&rights.safebrowsing-a;</strong>&rights.safebrowsing-b;</p>
    <ul>
      <li>&rights.safebrowsing-term1;</li>
      <li>&rights.safebrowsing-term2;</li>
      <li>&rights.safebrowsing-term3;</li>
      <li>&rights.safebrowsing-term4;</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>&rights.locationawarebrowsing-a;</strong>&rights.locationawarebrowsing-b;</p>
    <ul>
      <li>&rights.locationawarebrowsing-term1a;<code>&rights.locationawarebrowsing-term1b;</code></li>
      <li>&rights.locationawarebrowsing-term2;</li>
      <li>&rights.locationawarebrowsing-term3;</li>
      <li>&rights.locationawarebrowsing-term4;</li>
    </ul>
  </div>

  <ol>
# Terms only apply to official builds, unbranded builds get a placeholder.
    <li>&rights2.webservices-term1;</li>
    <li>&rights.webservices-term2;</li>
    <li>&rights2.webservices-term3;</li>
    <li><strong>&rights.webservices-term4;</strong></li>
    <li><strong>&rights.webservices-term5;</strong></li>
    <li>&rights.webservices-term6;</li>
    <li>&rights.webservices-term7;</li>
  </ol>
</div>

<script type="application/javascript"><![CDATA[
  var servicesDiv = document.getElementById("webservices-container");
  servicesDiv.style.display = "none";

  function showServices() {
    servicesDiv.style.display = "";
  }
  
  var disablingServicesDiv = document.getElementById("disabling-webservices-container");
  disablingServicesDiv.style.display = "none";
  
  function showDisablingServices() {
    disablingServicesDiv.style.display = "";
  }
]]></script>

</body>
</html>
