<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % aboutAboutDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/aboutAbout.dtd" >
%aboutAboutDTD;
<!ENTITY % globalDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/global.dtd">
%globalDTD;
]>
# ***** BEGIN LICENSE BLOCK *****
# Version: MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1
#
# The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version
# 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
# http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/
#
# Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
# WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License
# for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
# License.
#
# The Original Code is about:about.
#
# The Initial Developer of the Original Code is
# Christopher A. Aillon <christopher@aillon.com>.
# Portions created by the Initial Developer are Copyright (C) 2003
# the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved.
#
# Contributor(s):
#   Christopher A. Aillon <christopher@aillon.com>
#   Steffen Wilberg <steffen.wilberg@web.de>
#
# Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of
# either the GNU General Public License Version 2 or later (the "GPL"), or
# the GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1 or later (the "LGPL"),
# in which case the provisions of the GPL or the LGPL are applicable instead
# of those above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only
# under the terms of either the GPL or the LGPL, and not to allow others to
# use your version of this file under the terms of the MPL, indicate your
# decision by deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice
# and other provisions required by the GPL or the LGPL. If you do not delete
# the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under
# the terms of any one of the MPL, the GPL or the LGPL.
#
# ***** END LICENSE BLOCK *****

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>&aboutAbout.title;</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="chrome://global/skin/about.css" type="text/css"/>
  <script type="application/javascript"><![CDATA[
    const Cc = Components.classes;
    const Ci = Components.interfaces;
    var gProtocols = [];
    var gContainer;
    window.onload = function () {
      gContainer = document.getElementById("abouts");
      findAbouts();
    }

    function findAbouts() {
      var ios = Cc["@mozilla.org/network/io-service;1"].getService(Ci.nsIIOService);
      for (var cid in Cc) {
        var result = cid.match(/@mozilla.org\/network\/protocol\/about;1\?what\=(.*)$/);
        if (result) {
          var aboutType = result[1];
          var contract = "@mozilla.org/network/protocol/about;1?what=" + aboutType;
          try {
            var am = Cc[contract].getService(Ci.nsIAboutModule);
            var uri = ios.newURI("about:"+aboutType, null, null);
            var flags = am.getURIFlags(uri);
            if (!(flags & Ci.nsIAboutModule.HIDE_FROM_ABOUTABOUT)) {
              gProtocols.push(aboutType);
            }
          } catch (e) {
            // getService might have thrown if the component doesn't actually
            // implement nsIAboutModule
          }
        }
      }
      gProtocols.sort().forEach(createProtocolListing);
    }

    function createProtocolListing(aProtocol) {
      var uri = "about:" + aProtocol;
      var li = document.createElement("li");
      var link = document.createElement("a");
      var text = document.createTextNode(uri);

      link.href = uri;
      link.appendChild(text);
      li.appendChild(link);
      gContainer.appendChild(li);
    }
  ]]></script>
</head>

<body dir="&locale.dir;">
  <h1>&aboutAbout.title;</h1>
  <p><em>&aboutAbout.note;</em></p>
  <ul id="abouts" class="columns"></ul>
</body>
</html>
