testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/README.md, before:

# `testharness.js` test suite

The test suite for the `testharness.js` testing framework.

## Executing Tests

Install the following dependencies:

- [Python 2.7.9+](https://www.python.org/)
- [the tox Python package](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [the Mozilla Firefox web browser](https://mozilla.org/firefox)
- [the GeckoDriver server](https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver)

Make sure `geckodriver` can be found in your `PATH`.

Currently, the tests should be run with the latest *Firefox Nightly*. In order to
specify the path to Firefox Nightly, use the following command-line option:

    tox -- --binary=/path/to/FirefoxNightly

### Automated Script

Alternatively, you may run `tools/ci/ci_resources_unittest.sh`, which only depends on
Python 2. The script will install other dependencies automatically and start `tox` with
the correct arguments.

## Authoring Tests

Test cases are expressed as `.html` files located within the `tests/`
sub-directory. Each test should include the `testharness.js` library with the
following markup:

    <script src="../../testharness.js"></script>
    <script src="../../testharnessreport.js"></script>

This should be followed by one or more `<script>` tags that interface with the
`testharness.js` API in some way. For example:

    <script>
    test(function() {
        1 = 1;
      }, 'This test is expected to fail.');
    </script>

Finally, each test may include a summary of the expected results as a JSON
string within a `<script>` tag with an `id` of `"expected"`, e.g.:

    <script type="text/json" id="expected">
    {
      "summarized_status": {
        "message": null,
        "stack": null,
        "status_string": "OK"
      },
      "summarized_tests": [
        {
          "message": "ReferenceError: invalid assignment left-hand side",
          "name": "Sample HTML5 API Tests",
          "properties": {},
          "stack": "(implementation-defined)",
          "status_string": "FAIL"
        }
      ],
      "type": "complete"
    }
    </script>

This is useful to test, for example, whether asserations that should fail or
throw actually do.

Commit message:

Bug 1461710 [wpt PR 11010] - [testharness.js] Formalize test types, a=testonly
Automatic update from web-platform-tests[testharness.js] Formalize test types (#11010)

Previously, tests for the testharness.js framework were validated
according to an implicit heuristic based on the presence of a `<script>`
tag.

Introduce a file naming convention to make this distinction explicit.
This pattern makes the validation behavior easier to understand. It also
supports future additions which further differentiate the way the two
test types are interpreted.
--

wpt-commits: f39e58dd6df046644fd58e58f648a476c0de712c
wpt-pr: 11010


--HG--
rename : testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/tests/idlharness/helper.js => testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/idl-helper.js
rename : testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/tests/idlharness/IdlInterface/test_primary_interface_of.html => testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/tests/functional/idlharness/IdlInterface/test_primary_interface_of.html
rename : testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/tests/idlharness/IdlInterface/test_primary_interface_of_undefined.html => testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/tests/unit/IdlInterface/test_primary_interface_of_undefined.html
rename : testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/tests/idlharness/OWNERS => testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/tests/unit/OWNERS
rename : testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/tests/idlharness/basic.html => testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/tests/unit/basic.html

testing/web-platform/tests/resources/test/README.md, after:

# `testharness.js` test suite

The test suite for the `testharness.js` testing framework.

## Executing Tests

Install the following dependencies:

- [Python 2.7.9+](https://www.python.org/)
- [the tox Python package](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [the Mozilla Firefox web browser](https://mozilla.org/firefox)
- [the GeckoDriver server](https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver)

Make sure `geckodriver` can be found in your `PATH`.

Currently, the tests should be run with the latest *Firefox Nightly*. In order to
specify the path to Firefox Nightly, use the following command-line option:

    tox -- --binary=/path/to/FirefoxNightly

### Automated Script

Alternatively, you may run `tools/ci/ci_resources_unittest.sh`, which only depends on
Python 2. The script will install other dependencies automatically and start `tox` with
the correct arguments.

## Authoring Tests

Test cases are expressed as `.html` files located within the `tests/unit/` and
`tests/funtional/` sub-directories. Each test should include the
`testharness.js` library with the following markup:

    <script src="/resources/testharness.js"></script>
    <script src="/resources/testharnessreport.js"></script>

This should be followed by one or more `<script>` tags that interface with the
`testharness.js` API in some way. For example:

    <script>
    test(function() {
        1 = 1;
      }, 'This test is expected to fail.');
    </script>

### Unit tests

The "unit test" type allows for concisely testing the expected behavior of
assertion methods. These tests may define any number of sub-tests; the
acceptance criteria is simply that all tests executed pass.

### Functional tests

Thoroughly testing the behavior of the harness itself requires ensuring a
number of considerations which cannot be verified with the "unit testing"
strategy. These include:

- Ensuring that some tests are not run
- Ensuring conditions that cause test failures
- Ensuring conditions that cause harness errors

Functional tests allow for these details to be verified. Every functional test
must include a summary of the expected results as a JSON string within a
`<script>` tag with an `id` of `"expected"`, e.g.:

    <script type="text/json" id="expected">
    {
      "summarized_status": {
        "message": null,
        "stack": null,
        "status_string": "OK"
      },
      "summarized_tests": [
        {
          "message": "ReferenceError: invalid assignment left-hand side",
          "name": "Sample HTML5 API Tests",
          "properties": {},
          "stack": "(implementation-defined)",
          "status_string": "FAIL"
        }
      ],
      "type": "complete"
    }
    </script>
