<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=311681
-->
<head>
  <title>Test for Bug 311681</title>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="/MochiKit/packed.js"></script>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="/tests/SimpleTest/SimpleTest.js"></script>        
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/tests/SimpleTest/test.css" />
</head>
<body>
<a target="_blank" href="https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=311681">Mozilla Bug 311681</a>
<script class="testbody" type="text/javascript">
<![CDATA[
  // Setup script
  SimpleTest.waitForExplicitFinish();

  // Make sure to trigger the hashtable case by asking for enough elements
  // by ID.
  for (var i = 0; i < 256; ++i) {
    var x = document.getElementById(i);
  }

  // save off the document.getElementById function, since getting it as a
  // property off the document it causes a content flush.      
  var fun = document.getElementById;

  // Slot for our initial element with id "content"
  var testNode;

  function getCont() {
    return fun.call(document, "content");
  }
  
  function testClone() {
    // Test to make sure that if we have multiple nodes with the same ID in
    // a document we don't forget about one of them when the other is
    // removed.
    var newParent = $("display");
    var node = testNode.cloneNode(true);
    isnot(node, testNode, "Clone should be a different node");

    newParent.appendChild(node);

    // Check what getElementById returns, no flushing
    is(getCont(), testNode, "Should be getting orig node pre-flush 1");
    
    // Trigger a layout flush, just in case.
    var itemHeight = newParent.offsetHeight/10;

    // Check what getElementById returns now.
    is(getCont(), testNode, "Should be getting orig node post-flush 1");
    
    clear(newParent);
    
    // Check what getElementById returns, no flushing
    is(getCont(), testNode, "Should be getting orig node pre-flush 2");
    
    // Trigger a layout flush, just in case.
    var itemHeight = newParent.offsetHeight/10;

    // Check what getElementById returns now.
    is(getCont(), testNode, "Should be getting orig node post-flush 2");

    node = testNode.cloneNode(true);
    newParent.appendChild(node);
    testNode.parentNode.removeChild(testNode);

    // Check what getElementById returns, no flushing
    is(getCont(), node, "Should be getting clone pre-flush");
    
    // Trigger a layout flush, just in case.
    var itemHeight = newParent.offsetHeight/10;

    // Check what getElementById returns now.
    is(getCont(), node, "Should be getting clone post-flush");

  }

  function clear(node) {
    while (node.hasChildNodes()) {
      node.removeChild(node.firstChild);
    }
  }

  // Actually run the test once the XML parser works incrementally
  // addLoadEvent(testClone);
  addLoadEvent(SimpleTest.finish);
]]>
</script>
<p id="display"></p>
<div id="content" style="display: none">
  <script class="testbody" type="text/javascript">
  <![CDATA[
    testNode = fun.call(document, "content");
    // Needs incremental XML parser
    todo(testNode != null, "Should have node here");
  ]]>
  </script>  
</div>
<pre id="test">
</pre>
</body>
</html>

